I think I was originally kind of pinned as material science slash mechanical engineering who knew something about hands on projects and who could design learning spaces that looked a little different than the typical classroom space... It is important for me to communicate to people that I arrived before students arrived at Olin... I always have to get that into my introduction... I view myself as a person who makes stuff.... Olin is the first place where I really felt that I could be very creative and actually design work as part of my job.  Before it was kind of [a] hobby.  Bring design and creativity to the job, that was a big deal to me.

My experience was in traditional mechanical engineering design.  Which at a lot of places isn’t really about design at all. [The definition of "design" at Olin] is usually presented as kind of contrast as traditional.  If you ask what is design at a typical undergrad engineering place... it was analysis... basically your boss or professor hands you a problem and you are able to take it, break down what it means and explore some different possible solutions… pick one… and then write a report… sometimes you actually get to build the thing...  And then it kind of ends there. You don’t see the front end or back end, the front end being how did you arrive at that problem statement, why is that the right problem, who is interested in this problem… Who is it serving, what need does it address, so forth.  The front end, people to problem.  And the back end...once [this design] is out, what impact does it have.

When I first arrived [at Olin] people talked about design that wasn’t too different than any faculty talk about design in curriculum.  That is more defined as engineering design.  There was this talk of integration with the broader context with real world application, and doing everything in a more collaborative way, that was kind of aimed, I guess a broader set of competent than the typical technical learning that has to be in an engineering program.  But in terms of design like we talk about it now, absolutely not, or at least I didn’t see it. We had some color boxes, some power point slides I guess at the time.  I miss those days actually, I really do.  I think things may be a little too well formed and developed now.  I am ready to get back to the mess.  

We kind of recognized early on, the faculty who were here, we didn’t know enough about design, we knew about our own domains, we didn’t know about design broadly and we didn’t have experience in design theory, and didn’t even know -- that’s not true, Lynn has experience in interface design… I think the faculty looked at each other, we are not really equipped to design this design course, we don’t have a good sense of what is going out in the design world right now.  We hired an amazing person and he took over and helped guide us through the process of creating what was first the UOCD class and later the design nature class... we [other professors] kind of shadowed these people who knew and learned everything we could from them and tried to integrate and internalize this different way of thinking that we now call design at Olin. Putting myself back in time when I was in the audience along with students watching Chris talk about design.  I know the students were frustrated with the use of design jargon and words they had never seen before and words and concepts they had never considered before and I was in exactly the same boat, I was feeling it as much as students were I think, maybe a little less so because I knew I wouldn’t be assessed or evaluated, except I guess I kind of was by my peers.

When I first was asked to be one of the instructors in UOCD I think it was paired up with Mark Somerville. A few weeks into the semester, Mark and I kind of recognized around the same time we weren’t doing much of anything in the class. I will never forget one day in the studio, all the students were working... Mark and I are sitting on our laptops doing some other work, next to each other, hanging out and having a conversation ... we looked at each other and had this moment, Oh shit we are not doing anything useful and certainly not helping our students in any way. I think we both realized, we didn’t know what to do...

The people involved... we trusted each other and felt safe enough with each other we could open up and talk through these things… the most important thing in my development was reflection time with colleagues with these different approaches we were trying to take, pretty critical, I would say.  Really felt like a team.  But the situation really afforded, or supported our doing this. We thought we were busy at the time.  I look back and think good grief we had so much time to talk and reflect. For the first year I only taught one class in the first year… the second semester I had the whole semester to build the lab and build the science course, we had tons and tons of time to kind of work through things... enormous compared to what we have now, or at least to what I have now.
