IDENTITY

Jon: It is important for me to communicate to people that I arrived before students arrived at Olin... I always have to get that into my introduction... one of the things I oftentimes say is I design nontraditional learning experiences for a group of undergraduate engineering students... It is funny, because if I think back to the early days I would have never said that.

Lynn: My background is in computer science and in cognitive science. I speak of myself as broady interdisciplinary person... I spend a lot of my life thinking about things at disciplinary boundaries. I was a member, I was, um, one of the people with design background, particularly from my HCI experience and cognitive science experience. I was a professor at MIT for 10 years before I left to help create a brand-new college.  I’ve been at Olin since before there were students... I was here a year before Rob and Jon.

Rob: I am currently a professor of the history of science and technology. I have a bachelor’s degree in a science discipline and a master’s degree in engineering before I entered my Ph.D. program in history... [so] by training I have sampled science, engineering... [and] the social sciences. I’m sort of weird... in my intellectual vitality space... in the sense that I have... [a] history side and [an] education side. I was observing [design classes at Olin] from the outside as an outsider. I didn’t have really the background that was needed. 

DESIGN AT OLIN IN THE EARLY DAYS

Jon, just now: Was I just missing it? Was it actually there and I was missing it because the language wasn’t there? Or was it actually not there, this design as we currently conceptualize it at Olin today. Was it there or was it not? How... oblivious was I to the things that other people were thinking about in the early days? Did I somehow miss that? 

Lynn: The original vision of the Olin curriculum before I was here had something to do with engineering and entrepreneurship. The 3 corners of the original Olin triangle [are] technology, society, and solving problems, with equal emphasis. “Technology and technical knowledge” being engineering, “society” being the AHS, and “solve problems” being entrepreneurship. If you didn’t hear design in that picture, that is not a coincidence. Given what we know now, we can say [that] it makes sense design would be in the middle of that… the curriculum was more about hands-on, experimental learning, which naturally led itself to some design work, but not necessarily human-centered design work.

Rob: When I read [my first storytelling session transcript and see] "we came to design surprisingly late..." it is oversimplified. On the one hand, you could say "What are you talking about, Rob? We had design there at the beginning." On the other hand, there is truth to what I said.  We weren’t highlighting this as design. We were calling it engineering and we were talking about the concept of open-ended problems or projects without the concepts of design: the vocabulary, terminology or tool kits of design.

Jon: When I first arrived [at Olin] people talked about design that wasn’t too different than any faculty talk about design in curriculum.  That is more defined as engineering design.  There was this talk of integration with the broader context with real world application, and doing everything in a more collaborative way, that was kind of aimed, I guess a broader set of competent than the typical technical learning that has to be in an engineering program.  But in terms of design like we talk about it now, absolutely not, or at least I didn’t see it.

Lynn: Using the language [of design], that is something we do easily now, as part of the culture...I think we did use some of those words [Partner year]. "Prototype," maybe; "pilot," definitely. "Design?" Probably. If you looked at those early documents, you would see language that maybe was more typical of traditional engineering design and less typical of the kind of user-centered design that feels like it is more at the heart of Olin. The majority of Olin faculty members were engineers or people who could pretend to be engineers.

HOW DESIGN CAME TO OLIN

Jon: We kind of recognized early on, the faculty who were here, we didn’t know enough about design, we knew about our own domains, we didn’t know about design broadly and we didn’t have experience in design theory, and didn’t even know -- that’s not true, Lynn has experience in interface design… 

Lynn: I don’t think I saw all of the connections I see now.  In a lot of ways, curriculum design experience was the most human-centered of all the design I had done, even though I was designing human-computer interfaces. It’s the only field I worked in where the people were obvious.

Lynn: 
Chapter 1:  We need a design experience in the fourth semester.  <several ideas of what this could be>

Rob: Chapter 1, she is saying there is some need for design experience. That is fascinating for me to hear. I wasn’t aware of any of the details of that discussion. We talked last time [about my early Olin experience as being] "Rob, I trust you; take the AHS and run with it." [Similarly, I thought here] "Oh, the engineers are using this phrase design experience, they are saying [we] need it. Sounds like something great, good luck, I look forward to reading about that someday."

Lynn: 
Chapter 2:  _*()&^&^, our design prof is leaving….we're hiring someone else, but really shouldn't we plan this already?

Jon: I think the faculty looked at each other, we are not really equipped to design this design course, we don’t have a good sense of what is going out in the design world right now.  We hired an amazing person and he took over and helped guide us through the process of creating what was first the UOCD class and later the design nature class... we [other professors] kind of shadowed these people who knew and learned everything we could from them and tried to integrate and internalize this different way of thinking that we now call design at Olin.

Lynn: 
Chapter 3:  Ben, please save the day.  Jill and I will help you, but really, we defer to you as our design expert and will sit here quietly (or not :) )

Rob: Chapter 3, Ben, please save the day, we will defer to you. The idea of "hey, we have an expert, dump all responsibility on the expert’s lap, help them if they beg for help, otherwise trust them to do a good job." Ben Linder, the great design guru. Clearly he is going to run it. He brought in vocabulary; we would hear him use a phrase [and think] "What a great way to express that."

Lynn: 
I'm sure there's a Chapter 3.5 where Ben figures out he should bring in Chris or something; I don't recall how that magic happened.
Chapter 4:  Well, here we are.  Er.  Um.  Bike messengers!!!  (And campus police officers, and ER nurses, and a bunch of others.)

Rob: Chapter 4, when you just read it the way it is written here [it] may not seem that important... [but] it is crucial.  Emphasize it with exclamation points. When user oriented design started happening it was transformative. I could describe myself as the biggest ostrich in the world but I would be fully aware there was something happening in this course... students were coming in my classes were coming in and making comments... design has arrived on the campus. I would say you have got to talk to somebody who has run this course to get the real story and make sure it is not rose-colored.  I am giving you the outsider --  I wasn’t running the course. I would love to hear the truth of that course and the problems and the things that went wrong and the frustration because that’s the truth.

Lynn: 
Chapter 4.5:  Really, when we say we can't tell you what to do, we're not just being snarky.  And yes, we do know what we're doing.  Why do you ask? (Or maybe not.  Ask Ben?)

Rob: Chapter 4.5, Maybe that is Lynn’s way of talking about one of the frustrations evident of the students. I didn’t notice right away.  Really the rainbows and moon beams hit my radar... A part of design thinking is dealing with ambiguity and being able to chart a space.  There are exercises that students feel like they are being thrown into the deep water. Too much autonomy too soon.  And the teachers have consistently said we know what we are doing, we are giving you all this autonomy for a reason, you can handle it. 

Jon: I will never forget one day in the studio, all the students were working... Mark and I are sitting on our laptops doing some other work, next to each other, hanging out and having a conversation ... we looked at each other and had this moment, Oh shit we are not doing anything useful and certainly not helping our students in any way. I think we both realized, we didn’t know what to do…

Lynn: 

Chapter 5:  Phew!  Don't have to do this one again for a year.  (But hey, that was pretty cool.)
Chapter 6 and 7 and 8:  We start using post-its in our meeting.  We start talking about things like "generative thinking".  We start figuring out what we did.  We teach HFID (well, I do) and it turns out that UOCD was useful after all.  We start to incorporate what we learned into how we think.

Rob: Given our students now have this experience [of UOCD] in their tool kit, what can I do in my courses that draws upon it... (If design was the first leg of the baton race,) I saw my role as having the next leg of the baton race. It was thrilling for me to see myself as part of this big chain. Before design we were working together without realizing it, and design said "we are the first domino in this wonderful chain,” and everybody else said “we are dominoes too, it is awesome, let’s talk about it."  That is really when it started.

Jon: I miss those days actually, I really do.  I think things may be a little too well formed and developed now. Things we consider large curriculum revisions, to me are incremental change. I am ready to get back to the mess. [Allen Downey] said, "You know, we didn’t have much of a process to begin with, we oftentimes created things that did not have any explicit or well defined learning goals." Honestly we created a lot of courses without any of this structure, without any of these tools. We just kinda had an inkling of what could be, and jumped into it, and then later identified what was actually happening in that experience and what the goals were. I think the important thing is that you at some point kind of reflect… on the process and eventually figure out what it is you are doing. So the blindness goes away at some point.  
