MEL-J3: Terry, just let us know when you’re ready to go. Awesome! Okay. She’s already going. 
JON 3: I have not quite finished reading everything yet. 
MEL-J3: That’s okay. Start when you’re ready. 
JON 3: Okay. Give me a couple more minutes. I’m on the last page here. (long pause) Okay, I’m done reading. 
MEL-J3: Okay. 
JON 3: It’s -- (long pause)
MEL-J3: What are you thinking? 
JON 3: So the one thing that really struck me was in the second part, the design and the early days. When I first read Lynn’s paragraph, of course, you know, I’ve seen all this stuff before, the Olin triangle stuff but in this paragraph, I don’t know if this, maybe I’m reading into this or this was intended, but it seems to imply that design was kind of-- that people who were at Olin were seeing design in the middle of the triangle. She doesn’t say that, so it’s not quite clear. Then later on, well, she talks about design as probably being in there in the early days, but that maybe the language just wasn’t there around it. 
I think that’s a little different than what I was saying. I mean I actually was saying-- well what I said was I didn’t actually see it there. So the thing that I’m thinking now, to your question, is -- was I just missing it? Was it actually there and I was missing it because the language wasn’t there, or was it actually not there, kind of this design as we know it today or as we currently conceptualize it at Olin today. Was it there or was it not? Was it there and I was missing it or was it not there and we were discovering it as a group.
So that’s the first thing that struck me. Oh, crap, how dumb was I, or how sort of oblivious was I to the things that other people were thinking about in the early days. Did I somehow miss that? 
MEL-J3: You’re getting that from Lynn? 
JON 3: Yeah, from Lynn’s language. What Rob says is very consistent with my own experience and my own perception that the-- well let’s see. What does he say? (reading from Rob) "We had design there at the beginning. On the other hand there’s truth to what I said. We were not highlighting this as design-- open ended project." 
That’s exactly how I remember it, that we were talking about designing things sure and open-ended problems, hands on experience, project based learning but we were not, I would say our definition of or conceptualization of design wasn’t the same in the early days as or at least not for me in the early days. I guess that’s my question. Hmm, did I just miss it? Or is it something that we kind of grew into and that emerged within the group. Yeah. 
So nothing that I read in Rob’s transcript strikes me as unexpected. That might be also because I know Rob a lot better and we have so many discussions about Olin history and about what things were like in the early days. So it could be that that through those discussions our perceptions have converged to some extent or narratives have somehow aligned because we know each other so well. 
MEL-J3: Hmm.
JON 3: That’s another interesting thing for me to think about. 
MEL-J3: Yeah, one part I left out of these snippets is Rob a lot of times was talking about his work with you, which, Stuff of History, and I was like, "Oh, God I can’t cut that, but there’s no time." Yeah, in his story it was clear that a lot of his story was Jon and Rob, not just Rob. 
JON 3: Again and I think that because we reflect so much on what has happened and what it’s meant to us and how we’ve changed, and we’ve been doing that since the beginning, I wonder how much that has affected our personal narratives. Our personal narratives have become, almost, I don’t know, it seems like they might be more integrated because of our experience together than maybe if you look at a personal narrative from someone that I haven’t spent as much time around but who’s been around as long as me and Rob or longer in the case of Lynn. 
MEL-J3: Actually hold in your mind what you just said. If you go back to the first page with the section on identity.
JON 3: Mm-hmm 
MEL-J3: Two things you made me think of. You talked about yourself as a designer, very much so. 
JON 3: Mm-hmm 
MEL-J3: But that that might be something that has emerged, that you would not have said it when you first arrived at Olin. Lynn also-- (quoting Lynn) "I was one of the people with design background."
JON 3: Exactly. 
MEL-J3: Implication -- other people didn’t have it, but I was one of the ones that did.
JON 3: Yep. 
MEL-J3: Rob, in contrast to the two of you, kept painting himself -- his transcript is full of disclaimers of "I’m an outsider. I’ve never taught a design class. Jon and Lynn will know this."
JON 3: Hmm. 
MEL-J3: So that was how he painted himself constantly. 
JON 3: Mm-hmm. Yeah, so I guess, you know, in reading this I would be interested. Maybe I should talk to Lynn more about this but I would be interested to hear-- 
well actually she kind of goes through this in her description of the design experience in the 4th semester, kind of how that turned into UOCD and I read this, chapter 1, chapter 2, chapter 3 stuff and that to me sort of implies that-- um-- well I guess a lot of kind of uncertainty. 
The (reads from Lynn) "Ben please save the day. Jill and I will help you but really we defer to you as our design expert and sit here quietly or not quietly." 
That is pretty interesting to me given Lynn’s identity statement at the beginning, the (reads from Lynn) " I was one of the people with design background." So it’s kind of interesting. Because I know I felt that way. I felt the sort of -- Ben and Chris Heape please save the day, and teach us, you know, help us understand how we my think differently about design. I was certainly experiencing that when I was going through UOCD for the first time. 
 MEL-J3: Hmm.
JON 3: Yeah so on the one hand it’s interesting to see Lynn kind of having this existing identity as someone who has design background, but also experiencing some similar things at least to what I experienced having less of that background. Well, maybe less of the formal-- actually no. I gotta stick to what I originally said. Less of the background in what we call design at Olin, for sure. 
MEL-J3: Hmm. 
JON 3: Yeah. yeah. Hmm. Oh, actually no, I mean, yeah. This is-- hmm. This is really interesting. Like chapter 4.5 from Lynn. After the class gets started her comment, (reads from Lynn) "Really when we say we can’t tell you what to do, we’re not just being" -- isn’t that correct -- (resumes reading from Lynn) "and yes we do know what we’re doing, why do you ask." I did not feel that way early on in UOCD. I actually felt like I didn’t know what I was doing, and I mean that strikes me as a pretty fundamental difference in how we experienced that situation. 
MEL-J3: It might also be-- maybe experience but also maybe expertise.
JON 3: Mm-hmm.
MEL-J3: Lynn is now an admin, and she came in, you came in pretty much, you and Rob came in almost fresh out of grad school. You had a few years of Bucknell and Rob had one teaching experience. Lynn came in with I don’t know how long but a long time, years at MIT.
JON 3: Mm-hmm, yeah, many years. 
MEL-J3: The last time you talked with me about how you needed to learn how to be a facilitator. So now you can jump into weird territory like the sustainability course and still feel like you kind of know what you’re doing even if you don’t know what you’re doing? 
JON 3: Mm-hmm.
MEL-J3: I don’t know if maybe Lynn was talking with that level of confidence because she got to that point before Olin. I have no idea. 
JON 3: It could be. 
MEL-J3: I’m going to fold here, and put Rob’s comments on Lynn’s chaptersin the document, because you’re saying things that are so hilariously interacting with what Rob has to say I have to put it in for you to see. (pause, Mel edits prompts) I was worried it would make it too long. 
JON 3: I also wonder why, like if-- I don’t know. I keep coming back to this question. How much was I just missing because I was maybe busy with other things or overwhelmed or still sort of so fresh to that environment. How much was I missing with regard to the capacity or the expertise that we had on campus in the domain of design at the time before we hired Ben Linder and before we brought Chris Heape to campus. Yeah, I feel kind of badly about that. Okay. But I don’t know. Wow. It’s really interesting to me. 
MEL-J3: Isn’t it though? And this is the fun part about doing the study. 
JON 3: Yeah ! I would swear people spin things in the way that makes sense to them but I remember in the early days of UOCD the first few days we were there and my sense was everyone in the room, Lynn and Jill and Mark and myself were all just looking to Ben and Chris to help us learn. Now I wonder. Maybe the dynamic was different than I perceived. So. Okay. Let’s see what Rob had to say. 
MEL-J3: Okay. So maybe we’re kind of jumping all over the place here. Would it make sense to take it one Lynn chapter at a time with your commentary and Rob’s commentary? 
JON 3: Sounds good. 
MEL-J3: So going to the stuff before chapter 1 I’ll highlight. So things that you said and things that Lynn said. Anything in that bit? If not we can pass and do it bit by bit. 
JON 3: Um, yeah, I mean I think there is a big difference between-- there’s potentially a big difference between how Lynn was thinking about design and how I was. If she was already doing curriculum design, I wasn’t doing much of that. If she was already doing human computer- interface design-- I don’t know. 
Maybe it’s not as different as I say, but my design experience was much more around physical systems, not necessarily even considering people. So okay, so the people thing was maybe more on Lynn’s radar than it was on mine at the time. Let’s move on though. I don’t think that’s as interesting as maybe this would be. 
MEL-J3: Chapter one, then.
JON 3: So what Lynn said is exactly what I remember. I think I described this in my last interview or maybe the first one. We wanted a design experience in every year. In year two we wanted-- the language that I remember from the early days was we wanted something like a mini capstone experience. We thought that would happen in the 4th semester. So instead of a year long it would be a semester long and a smaller scale project but still where students were designing, fabricating, testing something. 
The early language from my perspective again probably colored from my experience was not a user-centered design in the way that we currently define it was much more of a we want them to design, fabricate and test some system. So it could be software or hardware but the focus was on the system and not the people like UOCD has of course turned into. It’s interesting to see Rob’s comments too that he wasn’t aware of the detail --
MEL-J3: That sort of goes with Rob thinking he is an outsider. 
JON 3: Yeah. 
MEL-J3: He also mentioned that went both ways. Like he was an outsider in the design stuff but he also got handed all the AHS and kept on having to go, "Um, guys, I need to have help teaching these classes. Guys, I need help teaching them writing." 
JON 3: Yeah he tells a pretty funny story around his assignment to take care of AHS in the curriculum and all of us are busy working through the details of our various engineering disciplines and he has to handle everything, all of arts, all of social science, all of humanities. Oh, and by the way we’ll throw the entrepreneurship, at least some of that, at you too. Actually, in the early days entrepreneurship was more separate from AHS, so I don’t think Rob did a lot of that. His response being one of, "Um, do you realize that this is like, you know, 80% of all the disciplines that exist in the world you’ve just asked me to handle how that’s going to integrate into our curriculum," so. 
MEL-J3: (Laughter) yeah. 
JON 3: Pretty funny. So chapter 2. Professors leaving, who is leaving? Dan Frye? Is that who we’re talking about? 
MEL-J3: Yeah 
JON 3: I never thought of him as a design professor. I thought of him as another mechanical engineer. 
MEL-J3: Wow. 
JON 3: I never had him pinned as a design guy or the design prof. Hmm. That’s fascinating. Be interesting to ask him what his identity was at Olin in the early days. 
MEL-J3: Oh, yeah. 
JON 3: Hmm, yeah that strikes me as surprising, actually. I always had the sense that we were, I guess I never had the sense of oh, crap we’re losing a design person or oh, crap we really need to hire a design person until we got to the point where we were interviewing Ben Linder and that’s when the lightbulb went off in my head. I think it was when I was reading Ben’s application. I was blown away when I read his faculty application. A couple of weeks ago I digged up my notes for when Ben was interviewing for some other reason. I had nothing but like the, but total praise for Ben before I’d even met him. I was oh, man we totally have to hire this guy. We have to bring him to campus. So I think when I read his application the lightbulb went off that oh, design is actually more than how I’ve been thinking about design 
MEL-J3: Ah, okay. 
JON 3: Yeah so that it’s funny. I didn’t mention this in the other interviews but, and then after of course meeting Ben and having conversations with him then it was very clear that we were missing something in the space of design. Well, kind of, I don’t know. Yeah, so maybe my narrative earlier of thinking about design as engineering design like mechanical engineering system design, maybe that was, that’s a narrative that if you asked me at the time is there anything wrong with that I probably would have said no, like in the partner year. 
So there’s like a pre, pre-Ben-Linder, post-Ben-Linder perception of my own thinking maybe. Pre Ben Linder maybe yeah that’s what design is, there’s nothing wrong with that. After Ben Linder oh, yes I recognize how limited my definition of design is and how colored by, you know, kind of the traditional approach to design in engineering it is. 
MEL-J3: Okay. On that note, after the Lynn chapters we’ll take a break and I want to move back to your descriptions of design before the Lynn chapter section. 
JON 3: Okay chapters 3, Ben please save the day Jill and I will help you. Really we defer to you as our design expert. We sit here quietly, or not. Yeah, that’s pretty much consistent with how I felt. 
You know, there’s another little twist on this though and that is when Ben came and we identified UOCD as the course that we wanted to run in the sophomore year, thanks to mostly Ben’s input and Chris Heape’s input, at the same time or around the same time we also pulled out the POE class. 
The Principles of Engineering class and actually POE is an artifact of a curriculum revision process that was mostly intended to break up the cohorts and not force people to integrate. That’s my take. It was an artifact of basically changing the credit value of certain integrated experiences once we made them not integrated. 
We were left with these 4 credits and we had a sense at that point that we would use the user-centered design thing but we also wanted people to build and test something, some real, you know, some real engineering system. 
So I think kind of in a way POE, POE kind of addressed the old definition of design while UOCD provided this new and exciting and kind of emergent definition of design, at least for those of us who didn’t know about it. 
So we didn’t actually have to give up the old. We could actually just point to the POE class and say oh, yeah, yeah there’s engineering design and look. We have this other cool user-centered stuff happening also. And I think, I know for me at least it was only over, over some time that the two became part of the same picture. 
MEL-J3: I wonder if other people would see that complementarity as well between POE and UOCD. 
JON 3: Yeah I gotta say for me it was still a really strong sense that students needed at the sophomore level students needed or could benefit from, I should say, a hands on, in the machine shop, you know, doing engineering drawings, making some working system and testing it. There was still that, a strong sense within me that that would be a valuable experience. 
MEL-J3: Mm-hmm 
JON 3: Yeah. Okay let’s see. Let’s go down chapter 3.5. Ben figures out he should bring in Chris. I don’t recall how that-- yeah. I think I don’t really remember how that happened either. 
(Laughter) in chapter 4 is actually starting the class. Yeah, this is really, I think, the, you know, seeing Ben’s application and talking to him is one thing. Getting into the class with a title of instructor or professor, that was an entirely different experience. So I guess it became real at that point. 
MEL-J3: You can see Rob’s section of Rob is, Rob also comes in saying oh, man I really want to hear the way Lynn and Jon tell this story. 
JON 3: Well I gave you some of this narrative last time but my experience was in the first, especially in the first couple of UOCD sessions in the auditorium where Ben would do a lecture on design thinking or Chris Heape would do a lecture on design thinking, um, I would just be sitting there kind of in awe with my mouth hanging open probably and just be kind of taking it all in, and then I think I was really primed for it for whatever reason. I was ready to take this step and I was totally willing to think of design in a different way. I was digging it. I absolutely loved it. 
At the same time I recognized it was really hard and it was language I wasn’t used to using. It was a stretch. It was really stretching me in ways that were at times kind of uncomfortable. So lots of ambiguity but certainly I think I recognized, at least from a cognitive perspective, from a conceptual understanding, from a thinking about design perspective I recognized from the start that I was learning stuff that was new to me, and that it was exciting. It was a little bit different story when I was actually asked to facilitate, so going into the classroom. 
That is kind of Lynn as chapter 4.5 when we say we can’t tell you what to do and we’re not being Snarky and yes we do know what we’re doing. When I say I couldn’t tell you what I know what to do I wasn’t being Snarky but I also didn’t know what I was doing. 
MEL-J3: I grouped these two sections with you and Rob with Lynn chapter 4.5. So your story about getting with Mark and going oh, shit.
JON 3: Yeah and it was really kind of, I mean for me it was challenging because I was liking the ideas that Ben and Chris were presenting. You know, kind of the new way of thinking about design. I was totally into it. I just didn’t know how to help other people gain some traction in that domain. I didn’t have the facilitator skills that I needed to I guess make the connection or help other people make the connection. 
MEL-J3: I think Rob’s last sentence there is interesting regarding that point.
JON 3: (reading from Rob) "And the teachers have consistently said we know what we’re doing. We’re giving you all of this autonomy for a reason. You can handle it." Hmm. Yeah, huh, yeah. I think I might have been a little too in my own-- it sort of wrapped up in my own process of learning, I think, that I-- I don’t even know. Honestly I don’t know if I was able to sort through what was going on for students at the time. Like the intention around autonomy, I mean maybe I could guess. I think my experience was so much like the student’s experience that I wasn’t actually processing at a higher level. 
MEL-J3: (Laughter) 
JON 3: Although that said I know I had the sense and Mark and I have talked about this. I know I had the sense that I was catching on a lot more quickly than students were. It wasn’t just the, you know, learning content one day before you teach it to students kind of thing. I felt like I was internalizing things much more rapidly than students were. 
I think, you know, I was excited to learn. I was in the design theory lectures with Chris and Ben furiously taking notes, just really digging what they were saying and trying to make the connections and trying to find value in everything. 
So I think I was, more so than a lot of students, I was willing to kind of take that leap or take that step with them. I think it was actually-- I don’t know. Maybe I’m not giving students enough credit but they seemed much more anxious about the whole thing than I did. 
MEL-J3: Well they were getting grades. 
JON 3: That’s true. Yeah. That’s true. Yeah. Yeah, that’s a good point, Mel. Yeah. 
MEL-J3: Also, just as, you know, their experience is high school, first year of Olin, very structured, you’d done dissertation, teaching, open-ended stuff. 
JON 3: Yeah that’s true, well, and I think likely given my experience in graduate school, given my experience at Bucknell, given my experience in industry, I mean I had a lot more kind of pieces in place or scaffold that I could hang the concept design on than a lot of students did and frankly my life experience. 
I was ten or twelve years older than students. So I had a lot more to hang these ideas on than I think a lot of students did. So that probably helped. 
But yeah I didn’t have the pressure of grade. There was no extrinsic drive. It was all internalized from the start. Yeah, interesting. 
Okay, let’s see what else we have here. Chapter 5. Don’t have to do this-- this one again for a year. I don’t remember feeling that way at the end of UOCD. I remember feeling more and more comfortable as the semester went on. I don’t remember thinking I don’t want to do this again. Quite the opposite, actually. 
MEL-J3: I think Lynn was being like funny at that point. 
JON 3: Yeah, yeah, um post it notes in our meeting, chapter 6, 7 and 8. Yeah, that’s sort of the diffusion or permeation of all the other stuff at Olin with the ideas and ways and processes of UOCD. Certainly that happened. 
MEL-J3: Mm-hmm.
JON 3: And sometimes surprised me when studentswhen I would grab a design tool and use it in one of my classes or when students would bring those tools to my class, and one thing that I always remember is I did an engineering polymers class very early on and asked my students to design and manufacture kind of at a prototype scale some product that’s made from a polymer. So just pick some small thing, do some design work and manufacture it. 
The first things that students wanted to do was to go out and talk to their colleagues, not colleagues but peers, talk to other students about what might be a cool thing to make, how would it be used, what would it look like, what would it mean to people. They basically wanted to do the user study at the start of my course that was titled engineering polymers. I was thrilled. I was so excited to see that happening. 
MEL-J3: That is something Rob also mentioned. I don’t know if I put it in the excerpt. 
JON 3: Actually yeah, I see that now. (reads from Rob) "What can do I in my course that is draws upon it.?" Yeah, that’s in there. 
MEL-J3: It was another part I don’t think I put into the prompt but he was talking about-- oh, no. It’s earlier in that page when Rob is talking about chapter 4. 
(reads from Rob) "I could describe myself as the biggest ostrich in the world but I would be aware something is happening in this course. Students were coming in my classes, were talking and making comments." That’s part of a much longer spiel where Rob talks about when students are coming in talking about personas and stuff. At first he thinks it’s some club --
JON 3: (laughs)
MEL-J3: -- but they’re like, no, it’s a class. He describes that sort of dynamic. 
JON 3: Mm-hmm, yeah. Yeah, and I guess having seen all of what students see in UOCD it was very apparent to me as soon as it started happening in my other classes. No less exciting but yeah, it was sort of obvious like oh, you’re drawing on UOCD thinking or UOCD tools or processes. It was really awesome. 
Yeah, and I never-- this is something that I’m very happy about is I’ve always, I was always flexible enough in my course designs to accommodate that sort of thing. Like I mean I can imagine that some faculty, maybe not at Olin but some schools would say wait that’s not aligning with the goals of this class. Don’t spend your time doing a user study. Just design something but kind of, you know, I was able to connect the dots thankfully and adjust on the fly to make for a better experience for students. I should say allow them to make a better experience for themselves, nothing really that I was doing except providing the space. 
MEL-J3: Hmm. 
JON 3: Well and-- space and validation, sort of the yes, you can do that and yes, that’s a great idea. Yeah, absolutely use those tools that you’ve learned in that other class. So the connection across courses that we all, you know, that engineering faculty tend to complain that students aren’t doing. 
MEL-J3: Looking at the time we’ll pause and let Terry take a typing break and we can keep talking and then move back and do the rest. Terry, take 5-10 and holler when you’re ready to come back. 
(break, chatting)
JON 3: Okay. I don’t remember what we were going to talk about. 
MEL-J3: Yeah so there were two last bits. One is right after the Lynn chapter section where I think mostly the Rob part to see if you had any thoughts about that. You see where I am? 
JON 3: Yep.
MEL-J3: Okay because you were talking about, so I pulled this out for two reasons. The first one is that you were talking about entrepreneurship in particular as something that’s not really included and sort of oh, we don’t really tie this on to other things. This was Rob’s version of it as the next leg of the baton race. It’s not in this section but he also describes entrepreneurship as being another next leg in the baton race. 
The second reason is because we were talking about not at your perspective on design is broadening to include impacting other people and all that stuff. So Rob’s analogy might be another way of thinking about how would that broadening happen not necessarily to change UOCD but making sure we build the next leg of the baton race correctly. It reminded me of something you said so I put it in there. 
JON 3: The baton race is an interesting analogy. Hmm. I guess I-- for me the experience of UOCD, I guess I don’t really, hmm. The domino thing doesn’t work for me, that analogy because I don’t see this as a chain. 
It’s so much in my mind more of a, there are certain ideas, certain concepts, certain ways of being, certain ways of interacting that are important at Olin. Understanding other people and empathizing with them, seeing opportunities, being able to actually act on those opportunities, these are some of the things, and then having a set of tools. I guess you have to pick up the tools at some point. 
So that could be seen as a leg in the race, but for me the really cool thing about UOCD has been how for me it’s not about students getting stuff in UOCD and then moving on to another class and applying those things in some interesting way. 
For me the UOCD effect is one that is, it’s sometimes very direct and obvious, and other times very diffuse, but it kind of permeates everything that I do including things that happened well before UOCD. So, yeah, so I guess it’s more like a web of stuff that is intermixed with all the webs of other stuff that is happening and you can’t really tease apart one as being the precursor to another in my mind. So, I don’t know. 
Things outside the classroom like my research meetings. You can watch my research meetings and see that they’re influenced by UOCD. The students in the research meetings might have not been through UOCD yet but it’s part of how we interact and how we do things and think about things around here now which I think is really cool. 
So I guess one thing I’ve observed is that students are prepped for UOCD before they step foot into the UOCD class which I think -- it’s sometimes really simple things like generating ideas in a group with post it notes on a table and then sharing those ideas. Or maybe some exercises in identifying opportunities. 
You know, maybe they get this in other classes. Maybe they get this in things outside of class but they get to UOCD. Maybe this is not true but I have this sense that it’s not all new stuff for students now. 
MEL-J3: Hmm. 
JON 3: But that might not be true. I don’t know. Maybe that’s just my way of viewing the world. I also think that other things have, in a nice way , affected or found their way into UOCD from other spaces. I wish we would have more of that, frankly. There’s a lot of, there are a lot of things that I think would, could find their way into the class in some real ways. 
Like, you know, some of the education work that we do, some of the-- I guess Ben asked me once to give a section on motivation, why people do the things they do in UOCD. I did it once and then I never did it again so maybe that was a big flop. I’m not sure but that kind of thing. Like I think understanding people, social psychology and behavioral psychology stuff, I think that could be a part of the UOCD. 
MEL-J3: At some point the entire Olin curriculum becomes UOCD.
JON 3: I think that’s kind of what I’m saying maybe, yeah, yeah, which you know, back to the question you asked me during break what do I want to do. One thing I don’t want to do is create a school that has a bunch of separate boxes. As much as Olin strives to get away from the traditional curricular model we have a bunch of experiences that have names and about the same size as another school’s bunch of experiences. So at some point you kind of have to recognize that all of this stuff is really interconnected in a way that makes this kind of drawing a box around it seem kind of silly. 
MEL-J3: Yeah, but at the same time I want to push back on that a moment because you know the Dreyfuss scale of skill development. 
JON 3: Mm-hmm 
MEL-J3: So you’re talking from someone who can super navigate this context, you’ve been there for over a decade.
JON 3: That’s true.
MEL-J3: For a first year coming in and they say, "what am I studying," and you go, "everything!"
JON 3: Yeah but I think there’s something in between, right? Rob and I talk about this all the time. We made the mistake of having too big a space to explore, too much autonomy, too much [indistinguishable word] autonomy in our classes and we were not able to support it. 
So what you just described I don’t think we would be able to effectively support. So the response would not be a positive one, I don’t think. 
I can imagine something in between, right? I still think like we still have too much of a disciplinary fragmentation. It’s not real. It’s all created, all of these boxes. I don’t know what that looks like in practice but I’d like to try to create it. 
MEL-J3: That goes in nicely to the second thing I wanted to loop back to which is the second page of this document, design at Olin in the early days. I put in the transcripts from just now that made me want to go oh, we gotta go back to this. Thinking after this conversation what do you make of any of this stuff on this page now. I realize it’s a big ask. 
JON 3: Did you add more-- let’s see. You bolded some stuff. 
MEL-J3: I just bolded some stuff. 
JON 3: Yeah. You know what I’d like to do is go back in time and ask people what the Olin triangle means to them, so basically talk about the Olin triangle. But not just about the triangle, to talk about the implications for the curriculum. 
Like what does the Olin triangle look like at the program level? What does the Olin triangle look like at the individual course level? What does the Olin triangle look like at the week to week level or even the daily level. That might be an interesting way to get at kind of how people are who are thinking about or not thinking about design in the early days. 
It’s kind of what I did on my first day of work at Olin. I went around and talked to all the faculty about their vision for to the college. 
MEL-J3: So you did do that when you were back in time.
JON 3: Yeah, I did. The focus was very much-- well, it was pretty high level. I would ask people kind of what they were thinking about in terms of goals for the college, what their vision for the place was, and what the curriculum looks like. I wasn’t referencing the Olin triangle particularly or design specifically, but what I heard was all kinds of different ideas, all kinds of different opinions. Most people wanted to tell me about their ideas for the curriculum in particular. So I think students should do, you know, X, Y and Z, or I think we should have an experience that looks like A, B or C. 
Actually, the way that a lot of faculty phrased or responded to the question was they would say things to the effect of well the most important thing for students is and then blah blah blah.
You know and usually that was very consistent with their own disciplinary background. Well, you know, for a physicist the most important thing is that students have a strong physics background. For a biologist the most important thing is that they see the value of biology in engineering.
So that’s the kind of thing that I remember, and at the end of the day I think I told you this before. I couldn’t sort through it all. There were too many different directions or visions represented, or too many different ideas that I couldn’t make consistent or aligned in my own mind. 
That’s why I’m so curious about Lynn’s comments about you know the design probably being there but not talked about in the same way. That was one of her later comments is that I, I guess I just wonder how people were thinking about design in that first year. 
MEL-J3: I don’t know if that’s a question that you could have gotten an answer to in the first year. 
JON 3: No, I don’t think so. Yeah, so maybe I need to do more than just go back in time. I need to go back in time and get into other people’s heads. 
MEL-J3: (Laughter). Well you’d need to go back in time with the current version of them and then both of you can jump into their old heads and do translation. Yeah, it would.
JON 3: (Laughter) 
MEL-J3: It’s fun doing, you know, the other half of the study is at Berea where they’re much more in the early stage. It’s almost like they are Olin ten years back in time. 
JON 3: Huh.
MEL-J3: I am asking some of the questions about, "So what is design?" I’m asking the questions you’re voicing you would have wished to-- by the way if you have those questions I will take them and ask them. If you have any I would love to hear them. 
JON 3: It’s actually something, Mel, that I do when I work with other schools who are going through creating something new is I ask them, you know, most people have a vision or a mission statement and a vision accompanying that. They have a set of maybe identified values or goals. 
One of the things that I often do to start the dialogue and to try to get the different ideas on the table is I asked them, you know, the individuals what those things mean to them and what they look like at the program level and the course level. So if you say your vision is or your strategy is or your value is some particular thing what does that actually mean to you, and I don’t think we did much of that in the early days of Olin.
Maybe that’s not fair. We didn’t look a lot of it under the label of design. We didn’t really talk about how are we defining design, what are its constituent parts, what is it as a whole that might be greater than its constituent parts and then what does that actually mean for our programs, and then would some sense of what the program looks like what does that mean for us as individuals, where are we lacking capacitor understanding, what do we, you know, what kind of people do we need to bring to campus and you know what do we need in place to support this idea of design. We didn’t have those conversations.
We had those conversations around things like what do we need for a thermo fluids lab or what do you need in the machine shop. Well, what’s the goal of machining? Well it’s to do these things. Okay so what’s that going to take in terms of personnel and expertise? So we’ll hire these people and how much is it going to cost every year for people to-- what would it mean for people to learn? What would they be doing? Let’s plan that out and figure out what the resource implications are for that. We had that conversation for a lot of things but we didn’t really have it about design. 
MEL-J3: At the same time then I’m hearing you, when you talk about go back in time and have these sorts of conversations, it almost feels to me like that’s cleaning up the mess that you said you enjoy and that you miss now. 
JON 3: Yeah, yeah. Yeah. 
MEL-J3: That’s what made it messy, is that you didn’t do that. 
JON 3: Yeah, yeah so what’s my goal in asking other people to do this? I think it’s one goal is facilitating the process in such a way that things emerge more quickly and things emerge from the group in some coherent, meaningful way which I think at Olin took, it took too long in some cases. It was too painful in some cases. It never actually fully emerged in other cases. That’s being pretty harsh on the Olin experience.
MEL-J3: Well, no, I mean that’s good. I think we could use more bluntness on the Olin experience. Sometimes it’s puppies and rainbows. 
JON 3: Well there’s something funny that happened here. That was that people went off-- and this happens at a lot of places. It didn’t happen in design. So design was one of the first classes that really had a big faculty team, a bunch of people doing the same thing across multiple sections. It was one of the first classes that had that model. Most of the stuff we were doing at the time, if it was done as a team, that team was overseeing one section of say math, physics and project. So there was a lot of creating things. 
Again, I don’t know how I feel about this. That’s a good question you ask, Mel, or a nice comment that you make, that there’s a benefit to sending people off to build prototypes, messy, ugly, you know, high risk of failure prototypes. There’s some real value in doing that. 
At the same time it seemed to take us forever to figure out what the purpose or goal of certain Olin experiences really was. So I think people could get there more quickly than we did , and still allow for this exploration and emergent kind of understanding of what it is you’re doing. 
MEL-J3: It’s a tradeoff. It’s the system feedback loop that you talked about drawing last time. The tradeoff of the big UOCD team teaching model is that it has to stabilize so you can bring in new professors next year and so forth. 
JON 3: Mm-hmm. Yeah. 
MEL-J3: It’s a (pause) real tension I’m hearing you describe a lot of tension between those two things, that innovation. Oh, gosh it’s such a buzzword, innovation. But that tension space.
JON 3: Yeah, yeah, it’s true. And yeah I don’t know. Yeah, I don’t know how. Yeah, I guess I’m stumbling right now because I’m thinking oh, crap, am I doing all of these groups of faculty around the world a complete disservice by basically easing them through the process that we had such difficulty with providing them with tools that I think will be helpful in kind of facilitating a process, providing input in a way that I think will help them experience less pain than we did or help them get to some capacity more quickly than we did. Am I actually doing good or am I doing harm? I don’t know but, see, this is another one of those things I’m going to be thinking about for weeks now. 
MEL-J3: I think it depends on your goals, but good or harm towards what end? 
JON 3: Yeah, right. 
MEL-J3: Looking at the clock we have about 5 minutes before we leave to wrap up and such. Any last things you really want to delve into or talk about, or mark for next time, or say "Mel you should take this to Kentucky"? Next time you’re going to be-- it’s going to be a little while from now because I need to catch up on the Berea side but next time you’ll be reading stuff they’ve said about their process. 
JON 3: That would be interesting. Oh, the Kentucky -- 
MEL-J3: Yeah, the other place. So the questions back ten years in time thing, this is one of the closest times you’ll have to do it. 
JON 3: I don’t know. I need to think about that. Is Berea, can you tell me does Berea have, um, are they using design thinking tools? Do they have a UOCD-like process in their creation of this new curriculum? 
MEL-J3: I am not sure. I don’t think so. I think they’re still kind of figuring out what that is. I asked three people what design was in their curriculum and I got 3 very different answers. They also said, "Here’s my answer. The others probably have different answers."
JON 3: They actually recognized that? 
MEL-J3: Some of them. Some of them specifically voiced that. 
JON 3: So that’s the thing that I wish we had done more of, kind of in hindsight is we didn’t have that conversation at Olin. We weren’t asking each other, "Oh, so you’re working in entrepreneurship, what does that--" 
I mean I guess we kind of were but not in a real way. We were doing it at such a high level that it didn’t seem-- I guess we were kind of overlooking, at least in my mind we were overlooking the practical implications of how we were thinking about certain things like design or like integrating science and engineering. Like it didn’t become apparent. How we were thinking about these things didn’t become apparent until we actually started doing things. Maybe that’s just natural. Maybe that’s the process of learning. Do learn, I guess. 
But I like to think that with a few, with a little facilitation and a few more tools and a few more of the right types of inputs we would have made much faster progress in some areas than we did. 
MEL-J3: For the record they are at the point where they have actually been doing things for one year. They got the documents approved last year. 
JON 3: Okay. 
MEL-J3: So they’re now at the point of, "Ok, this is what it looks like in our classrooms."
JON 3: That’s great and maybe that’s just a natural process. 
MEL-J3: Really? 
JON 3: Yeah. But you know what I’m saying. I want to be, I want to be useful to the rest of the world. I think one of the ways in which I can be useful is to provide a certain type of input that we didn’t have but in retrospect we really could have used. 
Then, you know, who am I to presume that they need that input or that their process is going to mirror our process at Olin. So, I don’t know. I’ll have to think about that some more. 
MEL-J3: Well that sort of begs the assumption that being useful means being generalizable. Or portable.
JON 3: Yeah. 
MEL-J3: Anyway.
JON 3: Interesting. 
MEL-J3: Yeah, time to wrap up. I’ll do the same thing of cleaning up the transcript, sending it to you if that’s okay. 
JON 3: Mm-hmm. 
MEL-J3: Jon, I always wish these conversations could last longer. 
JON 3: The time just flies by. I guess, yeah, I guess that’s-- yeah, that’s good. It’s all good.
(live transcription ends, Jon and Mel continue to chat; Mel transcribes a few snippets not-perfectly-verbatim below)
JON(via Mel's notes) : I like to think of myself as a pretty reflective person, but seeing what other people remember what happened 12 years ago, 13 years ago, and thinking back to my own experiences... it's reflection at a whole other level.
MEL (via Mel's notes): I'm surprised you keep thinking about our conversations after them.
JON (via Mel's notes): It's like a TEDtalk. You keep thinking about it.
MEL (via Mel's notes): It's like a TEDtalk, but it's you.
JON (via Mel's notes): I see value in reading other people's descriptions of their own thinking. It could be narrative analysis or just narrative. Tell me what happened at this time. I think this has potential to be incredibly useful, not just 12 years later when you're reflecting on your experiences, but weeks or months later when you're reflecting on your design process of a few months ago or maybe a faculty retreat or some event. Reading how other people describe their own thinking, the group thinking as a separate thing from their own thinking, and kinda telling stories around that, I think that could be, that would be an amazing workshop to run with a group of faculty who are in the middle of a design process as sort of the facilitated reflection sort of thing.
