MEL-J1: If you could start for a moment to show what it will look like. Real time transcript. I actually do this in my classes for assessability. She is my she is recording everything we say which means as you tell a story you don’t need to look at the document while you are telling it, it is distracting, but when you are done with storytelling you will have your transcript right there.
And so the first half of our time will will be go, Jon, story time and the second time will be going through and say okay what did you just say, are there any interesting, surprising patterns that you notice by the way you are telling the story or things flag to talk about more next time
JON 1: The second part do we do together or is that something you will do while I am online
MEL-J1: We do together. That is part of the session. The part is first part is let’s tell a story and second part go over the story. We are also looking for if you go, Oh, wait I don’t know that persons name or take that section out because I am concerned I don’t want to go public.
By the end of it you will know what the transcript has. You will have also have a week after that in case you wake up in the middle of the night, Oh, I left that out, too. But at the point you have a transcript you are comfortable going public with. It is become an open data and be from Olin college, long interview transcript.
One of the things I am experimenting with, what would it look like to do qualitative research as if it were an open project. Probably will nobody will read a transcript but if they want to look back they will be able to access that. JON 1: I think that is really cool
MEL-J1: You can pause and take a break. Sure thing.
MEL-J1: Jon, if you could start out with an introduction from you, who you are, what you do and --
what I am looking at is design, design is a giant thing in Olin curriculum, and how it got to be where it is and what it is in the first couple of years.
When you were first designing curriculum, take me back to those days on the curriculum creation. If you were to talk with somebody about that and they had never met you before, how would you want to introduce yourself and what kind of context would you give?
JON 1: When you say design are you asking about design of the curriculum, or are you asking about design in the curriculum?
MEL-J1: Design in the curriculum. That’s a good question. One of the interesting things in this study is using design in both those senses, design process in the curriculum and also using it in order to design the curriculum. It is just something I know you talked about in the past at workshops, and Rob and Lynn have talked about in their stories, looping back and back and back.
I am doing two schools for the study, Olin and Berea where Matt Jadud teaches now, and both schools did this massive thing across the 4 year undergrad curriculum, making design thinking a thing. So that is the sense we are starting with.
I also know Design has a second sense at Olin that is also important though. JON 1: Thanks for the clarification.
So brief introduction to myself, I suppose first. My name is Jon Stolk. I have been at Olin since 2001, which is the time of the second round of faculty.
The first round arrived in 2000. I got to Olin a little bit before students arrived. I came in the summertime at the start of July.
I was at Olin early enough to hear lots of conversations from the founding faculty, the group of 8 here before me about what Olin was going to do, what was possible or what could be at Olin.
When I arrived I would say there wasn’t really much in place, which is not to minimize the work of those who came before me in the year. I think that just one year to go out and try to get a handle on what was going on in the world of engineering education, especially at the cutting edge, that was a lot to ask of the 8 people here before me.
I came in thinking oh they are going to have a plan already or some idea of what we are going to do at Olin, and I got here that there were lots of ideas out there but not much of a plan.
In terms of this idea of design in curriculum, from my perspective it wasn’t something that was discussed in the same way that it is discussed now. Nowhere close, actually. I would say when I first arrived people talked about design that wasn’t too different than any faculty talk about design in curriculum. That is more defined as engineering design.
There was this talk of integration with the broader context with real world application, and doing everything in a more collaborative way, that was kind of aimed, I guess a broader set of competent than the typical technical learning that has to be in an engineering program.
But in terms of design like we talk about it now, absolutely not, or at least I didn’t see it. I don’t know, I don’t know if that is something or surprising or if I should say more about that.
MEL-J1: Yeah, you can start. If you have got kind of a introduction. Oh, also do you want to talk a little bit about what exactly you do at Olin, what classes you teach and research you do?
JON 1: Sure. So I was hired with the title of assistant professor of mechanical engineering and material science. My background is in mechanical engineering and material science.
I guess we can get into why I think I was hired at Olin. I think there are some interesting reasons there.
What I do at Olin, I think I was originally kind of pinned as material science slash mechanical engineering who knew something about hands on projects and who could design learning spaces that looked a little different than the typical classroom space.
I think people saw that in me when I first arrived. I think the other thing for whatever reason is that I had some experience teaching at a small liberal arts school,
which is a wonderful place to start a career. I was surrounded by a supportive group of faculty.
At Bucknell I did the small liberal arts school thing. We had 6700 students. I did research with undergrads, we were able to attend conferences and publish conference papers and I think a journal article or two while I was there.
I think that resonated with the people at Olin, here is a guy with hands on experience in the lab, designs learning spaces and works with undergrads on technical research.
Of course I have ended up in a very different spot. I don’t do any technical research at all. All my research, I wouldn’t say education or stem education or more broadly. I study student motivation and student directed learning.
I am also interested in how change occurs in higher education, change efforts, change processes and I am also very interested in the connections between certain pedagogical approaches and certain students outcomes in the area of development.
Asking questions if we are talking about integrated learning, disciplinary, what is it good for and not what are the challenges associated and how we might help each other make progress in the area. What are tools faculty need to better integrate across disciplines.
That transition actually took a long time. It was a couple of years into my time at Olin when I recognized that the opportunities at Olin for me which were much more in the space of educational invasion, research than what I used to do which is synthesizing nanoscale materials.
In the terms of teaching at Olin, I guess I would say that I practice what I study, and that is I do project based learning, design studio learning, integrate across disciplinary boundary and try to create learning experiences that are quite a bit different than the traditional lecture and problem set course.
These range from intro level courses, intro science courses, to upper level engineering courses, and then I teach in the design stream at Olin now and then.
MEL-J1: I think that is a perfect introduction. I will be using the intros to make mini profiles in the study, meet Jon, meet Rob, meet Lynn.
Briefly, we will go for somewhere like 20 to 30 minutes depending on how much momentum you pick up.
So tell the story of design at Olin. When you already started telling it a little bit when you said oh the way we started talking about design was different when I first arrived than now. Whenever you want to jump off
JON 1: If we go back to time to 2001 and imagine a group of 16 faculty and a handful of administrators thinking about the curriculum. We definitely identified real world design experience as something we needed and wanted in our program.
I guess at the time it was kind of contrasted to what you find, the situation you find at some institutions, actually what I experienced as an undergrad.
I guess I can talk from my own experience.
I went to school for a mechanical engineering degree and I took these classes that were labeled design, like mechanical engineering design, and I never did any design. What I really did was analysis. I crunched a bunch of numbers and did math and I never felt like I designed anything.
And then when I got to my senior year I was suddenly ask to design something having no experience in that area.
I was really good at working through problem sets, I was good at doing analysis, at least in the academic domain, didn’t have any real hands-on experience designing mechanical or thermal systems, that was a bit of shock.
That said, I had a parallel experience working for a failure analysis firm, run by my father, run by two of my brothers.
I grew up in a lab space. My father started a lab in the garage of our home and we had testing equipment and computers and microscopes and sample preparation equipment for a while until he moved into a real space.
My experience working with my father is that he would give me real jobs and tended to be more analysis than design, a lot of real world analysis jobs. Very young, junior high or early high school and basically see what I could do with it.
And that’s what I associated with real engineering and science. It was the time I spent at the
help I lost the link. the degree.
So at Olin I would say the conversation in the early days was more along the lines of let’s give students real hands on experience that are connected to real problems that people care about. And try to build that into the curriculum throughout all 4 years.
If you look at the engineering curriculum, the earliest version, you will see things like the sophomore design project in year 2.
We kind of imagined it would be like a mini version of our SCOPE, our senior capstone project A smaller design, working with a company or some kind of external sponsor, doing something along the lines that what our students do for capstone but at a much smaller scale and lower level of complexity.
That’s how I was thinking about design, and that changed dramatically when we hired Ben Linder and Chris Heape, the guy from Denmark, to help us design that course.
We kind of recognized early on, the faculty who were here, we didn’t know enough about design, we knew about our own domains, we didn’t know about design broadly and we didn’t have experience in design theory, and didn’t even know --
that’s not true, Lynn has experience in interface design. I guess I should speak for myself instead of all of us.
My experience was in traditional mechanical engineering design. Which at a lot of places isn’t really about design at all.
I knew we wanted to move away from that.
When we created this thing called the sophomore design project, I think the faculty looked at each other, we are not really equipped to design this design course, we don’t have a good sense of what is going out in the design world right now.
We hired an amazing person and he took over and helped guide us through the process of creating what was first the UOCD class and later the design nature class, which was kind of morphed from existing project based learning and building that out in design stream.
Ben was hugely instrumental, other people plugged in in interesting ways, Lynn included,
and those of us from the more traditional thinking with regard to engineering design, we acted, we kind of shadow these people who knew and learned everything we could from them and tried to integrate and internalize this different way of thinking that we now call design at Olin.
MEL-J1: This is great. So to give you a bit of preview of the process. We are going to do 6 rounds of storytelling, this is the first one.
The second we will be coming back to what you said right now.
Third one is stuff that Rob and Lynn have said, other Olin faculty.
The next round we’ll go off the stuff the Berea faculty has said related to the things you talked about
and then we will move back to Olin faculty and then just you.
So this is so cool, you are already getting into things that Rob and Lynn talked about.
JON 1: That’s good.
MEL-J1: One thing you started to do, I wanted to ask you to be more explicit, when you say the word design, what do you mean by that word?
There are different definitions, different senses of the word design. What are the different senses?
JON 1: It’s one of those funny words that I use in lots of different contexts and depending on the context it means very different things.
If I go do consulting work with a school that is trying to change what they do in the design stream I will use that word in a very different way than it is used at Olin.
Are you asking what I mean when I say design at Olin? MEL-J1: Yeah.
JON 1: I guess I have embraced this view of design, which I think is kind of the common or accepted view of design at Olin, which is, it is usually presented as kind of contrast as traditional.
If you ask what is design at a typical undergrad engineering place, maybe this is not fair anymore, things have changed over the last 10 or 20 years.
This was certainly the case when I was an undergrad. It was not design at all, it was analysis. At some point later it became, if you are doing design work, someone basically your boss or professor hands you a problem and you are able to take it, break down what it means and explore some different possible solutions to the problem and then pick one based on some set of criteria and then write a report about that proposed solution.
Sometimes you actually get to build the thing that you propose building. And then it kind of ends there.
You don’t see the front end or back end,
the front end being how did you arrive at that problem statement, why is that the right problem, who is interested in this problem, who is not. Who is it effecting, who is it not. Who is it serving, what need is it address, so forth. The front end, people to problem.
And the back end side and then once you have this design and send it out into the world, well first of all how does it get out into the world and once it is out, what impact does it have.
Those are elements that are very much part of what we do at Olin, I don’t think they are commonly found in a lot of engineering programs.
MEL-J1: Is it that the user centered part of it, you’re talking about people being at the front end and back end. I don’t want to throw words in your mouth if they’re not the words you’d use, but...
JON 1: If I didn’t say people, that’s what I meant. It is very much the user centered nature of design.
Even more than people, I don’t know, this is something I have been thinking a little more about lately since I started working in the sustainability domain.
I think we have done a really nice job at Olin with identifying a definition of design that starts with people, gets to know those people, understands who they are, how they are, empathize with them and then starts to see some opportunities to make their world better, to improve their situation in some way, that leads to some kind of opportunity statement or problem statement.
You go through the design process, you end up with a thing, that thing goes back out to those people and then you follow through and figure out is this actually having the intended effect, unintended effect,improving the situation in some ways, addressing a need and not if not why not and so forth.
One of the other kind of unexpected or consequences is this thing in the larger system.
That is the design that I see at work in Olin. The thing that I think where it is getting interesting, I think it is starting to extend beyond people, to include the well being of everything.
Not just taking an anthropecentric view, a person-centered view of design but actually putting the natural world in its entity and time scales.
Instead of immediate needs for one group of people, thinking about what you are doing actually as part of this bigger, more complex system that might have effects, intended or not over longer time periods.
And contrast to this as what I experienced as an undergrad, what they were calling design, it is entirely different.
MEL-J1: This is fascinating, you are the first Olin faculty to talk about how the definition of design is continuing to expand and evolve.
So far you have raised design equals analysis and then Oh wait there is people there and Olin sort of sitting in that space.
Rob and Lynn both mentioned that too, but you are the first one now it is stretching out even more beyond to people and even more context.
JON 1: Yeah. And I don’t know how, I don’t know if that is something that a lot of people are thinking about. I know it is something that some people are thinking about.
The conversations I have with Ben and Jean and with Caitrin are very much pushing on this accepted Olin definition of design a little bit.
I think it is exciting.
If it is not growing and changing, I think there is something wrong. It is exciting to see.
I have no idea where it will end up.
MEL-J1: Those conversations, do they feel anything like design in the early days when you were reaching towards what would eventually become user-centered, people-centered design?
JON 1: Yeah I think there is some similarities. That’s a pretty good question.
For me, I guess I am experiencing them similarly in the kind of, it’s sort of once again wrestling with something that I feel like I don’t know anything about, or have insufficient or immature understanding, but yet I see something worth pursuing.
I guess a very similar way when I was first asked to be part of the UOCD, a class that Ben Linder and Chris Heape designed, I was thankfully invited to be part of it.
But the first few weeks I was confused looking at everything and my mouth would hang open as I tried to take everything in trying to make sense of all of these different inputs and put that in my existing definition of the world and engineering design.
I think it is similar now.
I have UOCD, people to people significance of design and now asking the questions of Oh wait a minute what about time scales, different time horizons and what impacts on people is similarly ,
I honestly don’t know what to do with it yet.
I read, discuss, talk to people, share ideas, try different things in my classes, kind of pushing on the current bounds, definition, a little bit.
But yeah, I would say experiencing it in a similar way as the transition from traditionally defined engineering design to user centered design.
That’s a good question. I like that question.
I will have to think about that some more. MEL-J1: We can loop back to that too.
I want to ask you to do one more thing before we take a break and then look back at what you said today.
If you could drop into story telling mode even more and go back to some specific incident in those early days of design, curriculum design conversation or maybe UOCD, what are we doing, what --
think back to a specific time and then tell that story of Jon, younger version, and what that was like
JON 1: I have told this story many times, but it’s a good story to go back to.
The big story for me, I don’t know that this is about design, I think this is more about transformation as a teacher and learner, but it was in a design context.
When I first was asked to be one of the instructors in UOCD I think it was paired up with Mark Somerville.
We had the course curriculum, the course design, we had weekly meetings as faculty.
A few weeks into the semester, Mark and I kind of recognized around the same time we weren’t doing much of anything in the class.
We were there, present, chatting with students on occasion but in terms of facilitating student learning and development and supporting it, I think we were doing a horrible job.
I will never forget one day in the studio, all the students were working, doing some design related talk, opportunity identification or mood cards or something.
Mark and I are sitting on our laptops doing some other work, next to each other, hanging out and having a conversation and getting a little work done while students are on their own and we looked at each other and had this moment, Oh shit we are not doing anything useful and certainly not helping our students in any way.
I think we both realized, we didn’t know what to do, we hadn’t internalized this new way of thinking design and so we didn’t really get it.
We couldn’t do anything to help students get it and base their behaviors or activities or some kind of new understanding of what they were doing.
It was a transformative moment for me.
One reason is I kind of acknowledged I didn’t know what the hell I was doing.
And two, having someone next to me who was going through the same thing, I could turn to and rely on and say hey we can help each other through this. Let’s figure out what is going on, what we need to learn and actually change our behavior.
This is not so much a design story as it is a transformation as a teacher and learner story but it happened in a design context. And it was the lack of understanding of user oriented design that kind of triggered that for me.
MEL-J1: I think that is a great stopping point. We will let Beth take a break. If you want to take 5 or 10 minutes and take a drink or anything, we can do that or we can hang out and chat.
(We hang out and chat about self-actualized learners, readerly/writerly texts, Jon’s growing fascination with narratives, and the sustainability class, which is the hardest thing he says he’s done as a faculty member. Jon mentions this technique might be useful for bringing together faculty teams. Reflection with Rob.)
MEL-J1: People like to do it different ways
I tell you one thing that is interesting to me. . Rob reads and starts talking off the top of his head.
I would suggest you begin at the first comment, the introduction and just read through it silently or out loud and whenever you see something that Oh, yeah or, interesting comment.
JON 1: Okay.
I for me it is very important for whatever reason in this introduction, it is important for me to communicate to people that I arrived before students arrived at Olin.
I notice that I always do this. I always have to get that into my introduction.
MEL-J1: To everybody, or other faculty, or industry too?
JON 1: I guess more sort of, I think, for me this is a way of positioning myself as someone at Olin at the beginning. Yes, there were people before me, but I got here before students, and that is what matters.
I do something similar with physical spaces, that is a part of what I did when I first started at Olin, designing labs, and studios and picking furniture and machine tools and all of this, that letting people know that I got here when there was nothing, at least in my mind, or very little, very little that actually had a form and very few people.
For whatever reason, that is really important to me.
I think apart of it it gets to the design thing,
I want people to know that I was here for the design efforts at Olin, actually putting stuff on paper that did not previously exist, that I was one of the create ors.
 I guess it is not surprising to me, but, I have to think about what that means. Why does that matter so much
MEL-J1: We’ll come back to this next time, this is not the last time you’ll see it.
JON 1: I want creator and designer to be part of my identity. I think that is part of it
MEL-J1: At Olin?
JON 1: Much more as a person.
I view myself as a person who makes stuff, creates stuff and it is true kind of outside of Olin but at Olin too.
Olin is the first place where I really felt that I could be very creative and actually design work as part of my job.
Before it was kind of hobby. Bring design and creativity to the job, that was a big deal to me. As opposed to woodworking or pottery or visual art, whatever.
Jon’s first day at Olin
One of the things that I didn’t put in here, there is a story when I first arrived at Olin, actually my first full day on campus, you may have heard this story before, but I tell people that I had after one day at Olin the worse headache I have ever experienced in my life.
Have you heard this?
MEL-J1: Keep going, I love this story.
JON 1: So my first day here I made a point of going around and talking to as many people as I could, that included the 8 faculty here before me, administrators and staff people and I basically wanted to get people’s take on what Olin was, kind of their vision for the place.
At the end of the day, I went around and talked to everyone, toward the end of the day I went into John Bourne’s office.
He asked me what I had been doing and I told him and he said how is it going, [and I said] it is pretty interesting and he said what you hearing from people. I said that is the interesting thing I am hearing all sorts of different things, lots of different ideas.
His next question I thought was pretty insightful he said are they compatible, these different ideas.
It was a long long pause before I responded and I think I said John I am not sure if they are compatible.
After that I went on to the back porch, behind Edison house by myself at the picnic table trying to process everything including what he said and I developed the worse headache I think to this day I ever had in my life.
I drove home with this headache as much as I could tell it was very much due to like overworking my cognitive processes, trying to make sense of all these different inputs, and I couldn’t do i and it was quite a struggle.
MEL-J1: Does it give you a headache?
JON 1: Does it still give me headaches? Yeah, not in the same way I would think.
I would say different things give me headaches now.
I don’t get headaches when I see lots of curriculum ideas competing for space or visions for student learning, that doesn’t give me headaches so much any more, the source of headaches are different now. I’m sorry that was another long story. What are we supposed to be doing right now
MEL-J1: Exactly this. You’re reading your story, it sparks different things. This is the writerly stuff.
JON 1: Has anyone told you the story of the orange book reports?
MEL-J1: The what? JON 1: The orange book reports.
MEL-J1: I don’t think so.
JON 1: This is another fantastic story I think of the early days of Olin.
When I interviewed I was sent home with a notebook that was colored orange, I think it had an orange insert on the front and that had a summary report of all the different curriculum ideas people had.
It was the most incomprehensible document I have ever seen.
Seemingly random, some good, some great, seemingly random, a shotgun approach to different curriculum all these different terms, words, I guess I was expected to take it home and process it in some way after the interview or something.
The funniest thing for me in the orange book reports, I got to this one page, it had this very strange word at the top, WODTOD.
Do you remember that, Mel, from the early days of Olin?
MEL-J1: What... what Olin does that other’s don’t.
JON 1: I had that word but I didn’t actually have it spelled out in anyway, I just sat there and on the plane on my the ride home staring at this thing trying to figure out what in the world it could mean.
I would go back and forth from page to page and try to figure out. Look at the word again. I finally actually worked it out based on the context in it was presented. I was very happy when I figured that one out.
In the orange book reports, they were chock-a-block with that kind of stuff, someone’s vision presented with minimal to no context with two or three powerpoint slides printed out and put in a notebook.
It was a bit of a mess.
MEL-J1: I came across WODTOD in the little crazy magazine.
I got one and it might have been in the Sister Sherra Says section --but I remember taking the random documents that had about been sent,
my parents actually forbade me to to apply Olin. I had to apply to MIT and so forth.
I was waving these documents in front of them, look mom, look dad, they have got a curriculum, they know what they are doing.
I didn’t realize how much it really wasn’t. But it worked on them, I went there.
JON 1: We had some color boxes, some powerpoint slides I guess at the time.
I miss those days actually, I really do. I think things may be a little too well form and developed now. I am ready to get back to the mess.
MEL-J1: Where were we?
JON 1: When I arrived there wasn’t a place, that triggered the WODTOD and orange book thing and the headache.
Yeah, I think this is pretty representative of my perspective
MEL-J1: Which part are you on?
JON 1: In terms of this idea of design and curriculum.
I think in looking at this, though, it might not entirely fair, it is not fair to some of my colleagues who had done more thinking about design.
Clearly Lynn had done a lot of thinking and a lot of work around human factors and interface design. But for whatever reason that wasn’t on my radar so much.
She was in computing and I was in mechanical engineering, I didn’t interact with Lynn a lot in the first year.
So I don’t know that I don’t know that we had really opportunities to come together and make sense of the design sense in the curriculum.
 For all I know she has a vision that was in line with Ben and Chris from the start, but I just know that I didn’t actually have that as an input when I was first starting at Olin.
MEL-J1: In terms of transcript editing and parts you want to go public, I think that bit is fantastic bit of analysis I would love to put it in public if you’re comfortable.
JON 1: Yeah, totally.
MEL-J1: Rob has done similar things, oh my gosh did I say that, that’s not entirely accurate, let me re-explain that. And that is exactly the kind of thing I am going, yes, yes!
JON 1: Yeah, in listening to myself and reading my own words it kind of makes me aware of sort of where I was in the context that I lived within in the early days of Olin and what I might have been missing.
(Link drops, missing transcription for a minute or so)
So maybe they [the Kernses] saw that I could connect with another different people. I think I’m a pretty good integrator or connector, cross-pollinator. I like to bounce around from space to space.
Or it could have been very practical. We need someone to come in and design laboratory and hands-on project spaces.
It certainly wasn’t my pedigree.
MEL-J1: In terms of academic credentials?
JON 1: Yeah, in terms of publications, in terms of (missing words from transcript as we get back online)
Just a little content correction. The 67 hundred students should be 6 to 7 hundred students.
MEL-J1: That’s 6 to 7 hundred engineering students?
JON 1: 6 to 7 hundred engineering at Bucknell. The whole school is 34 hundred students, something like that.
This all looks fine. A bit of reflection, when I started talking about what I do, I don’t do technical research I do stem education or even education more broadly than that.
This is always a really difficult question for me to answer.
I can’t say, I don’t have the quick I do research in and fill in the blank with two or three catchy words, nanoscale composites, which is what I used to do, it is kind of hard for me to express in terms of research and show vitality now and in part because I am a little all over the place and I am interested in all kinds of things that come up.
I tend to resort to long lists, interested in this and that and Oh yeah that other thing, I kind of dabble in this area.
MEL-J1: That’s interesting to think about in the context of Olin not having tenure--every 5 years is it now, you have to do the intellectual vitality --
JON 1: 6 years. It was 5 when I started.
Yeah, I don’t know if you have plans to explore this in your interviews, but that could be an interesting, kind of exploring how faculty in the early days of Olin kind of navigated the uncertainty around time spent on curriculum development versus time spent on kind of your own professional development, and then how that changed over time, especially when the institution started shifting language, steady state and transitioned ways basically to more stable institution.
Those, boy, those were tough times.
Not the early part. The early part it was very clear to me I needed to commit basically everything, or almost everything to building the college, and I spent very little time on kind of personal, interests outside of building the college.
And then at some point having to figure out what to do next.
MEL-J1: That is something I am personally interested in. I think it is outside the scope of what I can do for the dissertation but it is something I love hearing people talk about, Oh my gosh what am I going to do as a faculty, it feels like I am selling my soul to the system
JON 1: Have I ever told you my story of the 5 year plan? MEL-J1: No, I don’t think so.
JON 1: This is a good one and very much relevant to what I am talking about with the whole tenure thing.
I was hired with yeah we were going to build the college and you will also need to do a research program, it was always in the language contract and so forth.
This was in partner year. I think it was in the spring time. We had gone through much of the year, must have been two-thirds because the weather was nice. I thought have a break in what I was doing.
Actually, I think it was when all the students went to France, all the students and a chunk of faculty and administration went to France for 5 or 6 weeks
and I wasn’t invited, which is a whole other interesting story, no one ever mentioned it to me as an option it was like this group of people going to France with the students and I was never asked to join them.
Thank God because it gave my time to think, I think.
One of the things difficult , I decided this might be a good time to think about intellectual vitality or research or whatever they're calling it in writing.
I have got start up money, they gave me lab space, I had done some undergraduate research at Bucknell so I kinda knew how that worked.
What will do I at Olin in this domain or in this space of intellectual vitality or research.
I got a blank note pad, grabbed a pen, walked outside, I had brought my lunch that day I think it was peanut butter and jelly and I am holding my pen and eating and staring at the blank sheet of paper.
I wrote at the top 5 year plan and underlined it.
Started eating some more, taking a drink, eating my sandwich and just staring at this paper and after about an hour I had written absolutely nothing except the 5 year plan at the top, underlined, all caps, 5 year plan.
I kind of recognized at the time, Oh crap, I have no idea what I am going to do. I have no fricking clue what I might do at Olin.
It was a little terrifying, actually.
MEL-J1: But it worked out okay.
JON 1: Yeah, it worked out okay. But the funny thing is since I didn’t know what I could or ought or should do or what was possible, what I ended up doing is what I had done before, I continued the same work at Bucknell, a bunch of students doing chemical synthesis of nano scale composite.
It is sort of the default. They continue what they did for the PhD,
so I did that but never really felt right to me. And at some point I realized it is absolutely not right and I ought to be spending time on educational things.
Took me a while to figure that out, a while being like 5 or 6 years.
MEL-J1: By the way that is off the record unless you specifically want to put it on the record
JON 1: I don’t really care, that can be on the record, I guess in general that I say that I think necessarily has to be off the record, at least in this domain.
I don’t know, I mean that story is fine on the record. I think most of this, too. If we start talking about details of relationships that I need to maintain at Olin then we might get into things I might not want in the public space.
MEL-J1: That is why we have the editing conversation.
JON 1: That was kind of transition stuff, took a couple years, actually more than a couple years. Took a couple years for me to see opportunities, took a lot longer to actually move into those opportunity spaces.
Okay, and then we get into design.
Making me relive my lousy undergrad experience. Thank you for that, I really appreciate it.
MEL-J1: It has definitely been a culture shock coming to Purdue
JON 1: Is it different, isn’t it. MEL-J1: That is an understatement.
JON 1: I don’t think most of Olin students recognize how different it is at other schools
MEL-J1: You keep on telling us this and we go yeah yeah we know we got that. And then we actually go somewhere else and then oh my God, what.
JON 1: I wish there were a way to communicate it more clearly, or not. I don’t think it would matter
MEL-J1: I don’t think you can. You were as clear as you possibly can be, but we had to walk into it. I mean, there is knowing and then there is knowing
(it’s ok, Beth -- just jump back in whenever you can)
JON 1: Yeah. The thing that I always remember in my intro material science course in the lab components, we had a lecture course and lab component, this was the thing that caused me to recognize as an undergrad how awful it was.
I was working through junior high and high school and college at this failure analysis lab doing real world work, real equipment, machines, electrical microscopes, writing reports and I get to this one lab in undergrad and it was a lab we were supposed to a test on a piece of steel and
we were told we are not allowed to touch any of the equipment, our job was to stand around as a group of students, 10 or 15 of us and watch as a teaching assistant ran a test on a machine and then that person handed each of us a floppy disk with the output and our job was to go analyze the output.
That was our lab.
For me, to have had the experience in the real world, knowing that I am paying for this experience, that was a very much a wow this really sucks kind of moment.
MEL-J1: We have about 10 minutes.
Like I said we will be coming back to a second session. If you don’t finish it, it’s not the end of the world.
What we will be doing between this and the next session I will be taking it and sort of mushing your analysis from the second into the first one and then making a much, much shorter, maybe 3 pages or so here is a specific sentence we might want to talk about more, so you don’t have to dig through such a long...
JON 1: I am into the design section now, looking at sophomore. His last name is Heape, H-e-a-p-e-, was he around when you were here?
MEL-J1: Yeah, that was my first year.
JON 1: I really like Chris. Putting myself back in time when I was in the audience along with students watching Chris talk about design.
I know the students were frustrated with the use of design jargon and words they had never seen before and words and concepts they had never considered before and I was in exactly the same boat,
I was feeling it as much as students were I think, maybe a little less so because I knew I wouldn’t be assessed or evaluated, except I guess I kind of was by my peers.
Yeah, bringing back some powerful kind of moments in my life.
MEL-J1: I’m really looking forward to your third story time session where I get to bring in stuff Rob said. He made some predictions that half of them are right and half of them wrong
JON 1: About what I would say today?
MEL-J1: Rob depicted himself constantly in the design narrative, I am Rob the AHS person, standing on the outside, didn’t really have the same perspective as Lynn and Jon, who think Oh my God I have to teach them that, think about it differently.
I hear you saying, the first round I was not quite in that boat.
JON 1: Yeah that is interesting.
MEL-J1: I am looking forward to bringing that first transcript out to you.
JON 1: That is really interesting.
MEL-J1: I think in general all 3 of you have implied you found each other far more knowledgeable. Lynn would be like Oh Jon got it. And you are like Lynn got it but I didn’t know what I was doing
JON 1: It is a little imposter syndrome or maybe just a little honest humility.
I have to say that the group of us that was selected, Mark and Lynn and myself, I think we were the only other thing besides Ben and Chris, I think we were it was a good choice, the 3 of us, because the 3 of us got it.
If we didn’t get it before we went in, I don’t know the extent to Lynn did or not, we were a pretty quick study, I think.
We were kind of able to get it, we were open to it interested in it and able to make the transition without too much pain I think.
I don’t know if it would have been the same with other people.
Maybe we had great mentors and teachers in Ben and Chris. Maybe it would have been a similar experience for everyone.
I suspect. I suspect there were faculty you could have put in that early version of UOCD who would have been, potentially sunk the ship in the early days.
MEL-J1: In the last 5 minutes or so is there anything you want to look back to--you did mention you want to talk about reflections at the end of classes being a big deal for you and Rob?
JON 1: Do you want to do it now or another time? MEL-J1: We will do it now and we will have it down
JON 1: This is actually related to the design topic also,
Rob and I together and also in UOCD, Mark and Lynn and I and Chris and Ben, in some combination, we have, would have weekly meetings at a full group and often times smaller meetings we go through a session and reflect on it and do that that kind of sucked let’s figure out why, or hey it worked pretty well, let’s figure out why.
I mentioned this before, for in terms of growth, I think it is part context, the people involved and we trusted each other and felt safe enough with each other we could open up and talk through these things.
Part experience, Mark and I worked together for example on “things that go,” a project based course. Rob and I, I think our first teaching together was stuff of history but we had lots of time together in partner year.
But maybe it was the most important thing in my development was reflection time with colleagues with these different approaches we were trying to take, pretty critical, I would say.
Really felt like a team. But the situation really afforded, or supported our doing this.
We thought we were busy at the time.
I look back and think good grief we had so much time to talk and reflect.
For the first year I only taught one class in the first year in Olin curriculum and that was things that go with Mark and Sarah the second semester I had the whole semester to build the lab and build the science course, we had tons and tons of time to kind of work through things.
I guess I was probably around 30 and I had students who were what, 19-ish working for me, building the lab, planning courses.
Yeah, just the amount of time we had to reflect, spend on course design and then reflect on course design was really enormous compared to what we have now, or at least to what I have now.
MEL-J1: Is there anything else on your mind?
JON 1: This all looks fine to me. I am kind of quickly scrolling down looking at what I said. I liked your positive response to my comments up here about the continually changing definition of design...
MEL-J1: I will send you this transcript in a little bit, the public section of it, so you can have it and have a week or so to go, okay.
