MEL-J5: Well, I see you're in the document and we've got prompts, and this time the prompts are relatively long and complex. Just to refresh your memory a bit, last time was the first time that you started seeing some stuff from Berea, but it was just you reacting to them. And so, now we're starting to mix in a little bit of, "Hey, how did your colleagues react to these things." But a lot of this stuff that I wanted to throw out to you today is actually still mostly Olin stuff, but we'll start with Mark's question, which is Berea reactions, 'cause I'm curious where you go with that.
JON 5: So, this first thing on the -- In your document? 
MEL-J5: Yeah, yeah. So, these are -- This is actually the one page goes together, so Mark from Berea asked a question to Olin, and this is Lynn's response back.
JON 5: And this is last fall, okay. So -- And he's asking about the teaching team in these -- In certain Olin courses? He's not referring to students here, this is he's talking about teaching team, is that right? 
MEL-J5: Yeah. So, it's been a little while, so Mark is teaching technology at Berea and they lost a faculty member over the summer. So the entire rest of the department, which is four professors, decided they were going to team teach the foundational "Documentation and Design" class. And so, they're team teaching together for the first time, they're running into a lot of, "We have just made this giant curriculum overhaul that highlights design, but we haven't agreed on a definition of design." And as you can imagine, with four people co-teaching a design class without really agreeing on what design is, hilarity ensued.
JON 5: Yeah, yeah.
MEL-J5: So, his question sort of comes out from that space, and then that was Lynn's response to it.
JON 5: That's a nice honest response from Lynn. (chuckle) Interesting. Okay, so are you looking for my response to this? 
MEL-J5: Yeah.
JON 5: Okay. So, what's in my mind right now, which I guess I'll just throw out there, is I had a conversation with another faculty member just this week, regarding how terrified we all were of Mark Somerville in the early days of Olin. (chuckle) And the conversation was -- It was so funny, because somebody said, "Well, when I first started, I was terrified of Mark Somerville." And someone else said, this is a group of faculty talking, someone else said, "Yeah, of course, everyone was." (chuckle) Just sort of matter-of-factly, and I found it was pretty funny. 
So yeah, I think it's interesting that Lynn calls out Mark Somerville as someone who is -- And it's totally true what she's saying, that he is amazing at listening and synthesizing what's being said, but also in the early days -- I don't think Mark is this way anymore, maybe we've just gotten accustomed to -- Maybe we've just gotten to know each other better, but coupled to his ability to synthesize stuff was this sort of fear of approaching him and fear of interacting with him, so yeah, that's kind of interesting.
Yeah, and I guess taking the focus off of Mark specifically, at some point Mark and I had this conversation about fear of other people at Olin. I just basically came out and told him, "Look, Mark, I was really afraid of you for a long time." When we were asked to teach together I had these feelings of excitement, 'cause I knew I could learn a lot and excitement about the course that we were doing. This is very early on at Olin, the things that go -- The first attempt at an integrated course block, but also just really, really terrified of being in a room with him, with students, especially if I were on deck to something, so kinda funny. It's very -- I mean, we talk about this very openly now, but we've working together for, what, 14 years or something, or close to 14 years.
MEL-J5: Yeah.
JON 5: So, yeah, it's a great question, going back to Mark [Mahoney]'s question of "how do you ensure that communication is maintained?" And I don't think the question is really one initially of, how do you ensure that everyone's on the same page and totally aligned? And everyone has the same definition of design or whatever it is you're trying to do, I don't think that's the right question. 
I think the question is how do you create an environment where you can progress, and grow, and develop as a team, where you can build that understanding over time? And if you don't get the -- My perspective is if you don't get the right people in the room, who are committed to considering and creating that kind of environment, it's not gonna be successful, so. 
But it's also easier said than done, I've been on a lot of teaching teams, and some of them just phenomenal experiences from a growth perspective. And others, there's this kinda attempt at growth and progression that just gets killed, or stifled. And then ends up being kind of a lousy experience. So, I -- Yeah, easier said than done.
MEL-J5: So, so that responds to my question. Any thoughts on Lynn's sort of response to that, or is that already a response to both of them? 
JON 5: Well, yeah. I guess -- Let's see. Let me look at this and think about this for a second here.
MEL-J5: Okay.
JON 5: She mentions culture. She talks about competition as a teaching team. Toward the end, she mentions -- She's describing more credible and well-respected consensus building -- I think -- So I'm just reflecting back on some of the teams that I've been on. It's really -- I think I might've said this before in one of our interviews. If not -- Well, even if I did, I'll say it again. 
But I think you have to have someone on the team that is like Mark [Somerville] whose kind of primary purpose is -- Well, I don't know. Is this Mark [Somerville]? I don't know. I don't wanna -- Take Mark [Somerville] out of the equation. I think he needs someone on the team who serves as -- who is very sensitive to social interactions. Who can see things that other people don't necessarily see and feel things that other people don't necessarily feel, but also has some process skills to actually do something when you see or feel something that needs to be acknowledged or addressed or shifted, or supported I guess, if it's a positive thing.
I think that's critical, and I think that if you look at -- If I consider all the teams that I've been on, and I don't know. I'd hate to -- I don't wanna talk about myself so much. But I think that I tend to play this role in our team very frequently. And I don't think people even realize it. 
I think faculty tend to approach teaching teams in the same way they approach course design that they look at the other people on the team. And the initial kind of breakdown is, "Oh, person A is disciplinary expert in domain A, and person B is disciplinary expert in domain B, and I'm here at disciplinary expert in domain C. End of story." And I think that's kinda the initial sort of surface level of thinking about what a teaching team is. And it's kind of the opposite of the way that I approach teaching teams.
I don't really like to think about disciplines. I like to think about social interactions, ways of being, ways of kind of feeling within the team. And I asked the question, are these people with whom I feel I can grow and create something interesting? And if the answer is initially 'maybe', then I'll give it a shot. And if the answer is 'clearly no', then I'm very hesitant to engage in that process. 
So, but kind of getting beyond that initial, I think, evaluation of why different people are there and what the teaching team is, traditionally defined as kind of disciplinary domain expertise is really freaking hard in a lot of situations. 
So, and you can see this in the early days of Olin. It's funny. We've formed teams based on disciplines. We would create these integrated course box, math, physics, and engineering. And, of course, the first question is, "Okay. Who's the math person? Who's the engineering person? Who's the physics person?" And lined up people in that way. And, of course, it was kind of disastrous two-thirds of it at a time.
And now we form teams differently, or now we invite people into team talk courses like UOCD in a very different way. So, I think if you ask Ben Linder about his identification of people this semester who teach UOCD. It wasn't -- Yeah, sure, disciplinary domain is somewhere in the space of considerations, but I don't think it's necessarily primary. 
And then if I look at what I'm wanting to do in the coming year to -- The first question is who do I wanna try? Who are the people I want to work with? Who offers to me some opportunity for growth and some interest and some potential for joy and creativity? So it's a very different -- I guess a very different approach to forming a team initially. Sometimes you don't have a choice though, so sometimes you're just thrown on a team and you get to try to kinda figure this stuff out as you go along.
MEL-J5: Cool. So I deliberately separated this stuff from the next page, which was Rob's response to Mark's question. And Rob got to see both Mark's question and Lynn's response just like you have. It's interesting what he said especially towards the end. And you'll see why I deliberately cut this up at this moment.
JON 5: Should I look at this now? 
MEL-J5: Yeah, yeah. Look at the second page.
JON 5: Rob on John on Lynn on Mark? 
MEL-J5: Yes. (chuckle) Yeah, the transcripts start getting a little bit loopy with the cross-refs in this at some point.
JON 5: That's kind of funny. It's like a faculty sandwich. Okay. That's interesting, well --
MEL-J5: Um-hmm.
JON 5: I'm a little surprised actually.
MEL-J5: How's that? 
JON 5: Well, I guess I'm surprised that Rob's comments about me are more, sort of, I guess what I would call "procedural." I don't disagree, I think I -- This is kind of what I do when I'm listening to people, as I'm sketching and drawing and trying to connect stuff. I would disagree that I'm as good as Mark. I don't think anyone's as good as Mark. Mark's amazing at this stuff, but I -- I don't -- I guess I just don't view that as my primary role in this kind of conversation among a teaching team. Yeah, it's funny that's -- Yeah, I guess I'm a little surprised.
MEL-J5: We might look back at that one, a little later. I think, the prompts this time, sort of, build on each other and this grand crescendo -- At least that's what it looked like in my mind. So if you wanna keep on going, then we'll have this whole body of concepts to look back on later.
JON 5: Yeah, okay. Keep going.
MEL-J5: Yep! 
JON 5: Student involvement. Interesting. I think I read this already, last time. Is it possible that I read this already? 
MEL-J5: Uh, possibly. The next page has just been a response to that.
JON 5: Okay.
MEL-J5: Which is why, it's, if you're again checking -- Because I remember that, you having a really interesting response to this, or potentially having an interesting response to this. Yeah, you had this last time. You had an interesting response to it, and I wanted to bring it back because here was Lynn's --
JON 5: Okay. Alright, let's see, "Blah blah blah -- " This is great.
MEL-J5: Which part are you looking at? 
JON 5: I'm looking at the welding discussion.
MEL-J5: Um-hmm.
JON 5: It's pretty -- That's pretty fascinating, the response. It's very, well -- I'm trying to hold back on my evaluation of people's comments, but I guess that's kind of the point, right? 
MEL-J5: I mean it is fascinating, because the things we say kind of reveal our underlying philosophies sometimes.
JON 5: Well, this to me feels so so teacher-centered, and so very much -- It's coming from a position of, "I have the answer and you don't" or "I know more of the answer than you do, therefore I'm not gonna listen to you." So, it's -- I just find that fascinating. 
I guess I can think of a different approach to this sort of -- I can imagine this conversation going a very different way, if you had a more, I guess, person-centered listener on the other side. One who would engage in some inquiry about what this -- The, so called, this quote, "one sided biased consideration" is really about. So I can see this going in a super productive way, but it looks like this -- 
This description to me is just like, "No, you don't know anything. You're wrong, so we will not consider your biased opinion." It's kind of interesting. Especially coming from someone who's teaching design.
MEL-J5: So, if you were in that situation, if a student came up and said, "We should have a welding class." What would you do? 
JON 5: Oh, "Tell me about welding. What is it that you like? Why do you like it?" Kind of do the five whys questioning. Inquiry, right? Like, "Who are you? How did you get to this position where you think welding is one that could be interesting?" and kind of let that play out a little bit. And I think that to me -- That kind of conversation could lead to abstraction from welding to something bigger. 
I -- My personal opinion is that, when students say things like these, it's not necessarily about things about welding. It could be about whatever experiences this person has had with welding, and that's, kind of, what I wanna get at. "Why is learning welding important to you?" or "Why has it been an exciting endeavor?" or whatever. 'Cause that's the stuff that you can pop down, in any domain, and do some design work around, so -- Rather than, sort of -- 
And this is the same thing that I attempt to do with faculty. We say, "All my students need crystallography of ceramic materials," or something like that. Something super that sounds super specific to me. You could dismiss that and say, "Oh, well, obviously that's not important. So, I'll ignore your biased opinion." Or you can interrogate that, or inquire into that statement and, kind of, find out what's behind it. And then you get a real story. 
And oftentimes, that, I think, would lead to the person making the statement, having the same kind of realization that you might have as a designer, someone listening that, "Oh, okay. So, maybe this is actually -- Maybe this thing that I like in, welding in this case, or crystallography of ceramics, is really about something else." And maybe we could design around that, with more flexibility. Does that make sense? 
MEL-J5: Yep. And by the way have you looked at Lynn's response yet or you're just going off with Mark right now? 
JON 5: No I haven't looked it, I'm only down to right after this.
MEL-J5: Okay.
JON 5: Yeah, so I'm not gonna get my curriculum because -- Yeah, so I can meet with one or two students, and then this is very sort of teacher centered to me. I'll help them, I'll guide them, I'll tell them where they can get it blah, blah, blah -- Oops, I just screwed things up okay. Okay. I thought I was talking with Lynn and Rob about this, mostly Lynn about this particular section of Mark's transcript. I went -- I don't know how obvious it is to you guys, but it's super obvious to me that I can't restrain myself from certainly disagreeing.
JON 5: Yeah.
MEL-J5: This is where I look at the transcript and go, "Oh my gosh, I went to Olin." And this has really fundamentally changed the way I see the world in certain ways.
JON 5: Yeah, yeah, yeah I can see that. Actually I didn't read your response, I just kind of jump into my little criticism and I'm reading your responses now, and you're basically saying something very similar, like what's the -- If they were going through the process, it'd help you figure out all of the considerations, yeah and they would be less likely to say, "Yeah, you should make your own do welding. But there's a lot -- There's likely a lot of history of that baggage and a lot of kinda cultural norms around that surround this kind of response, right? This is kinda how faculty are trained to think and do, and interact with students so --
MEL-J5: Yeah, absolutely.
JON 5: Yes, it's not so surprising. Okay, so should I read Lynn's response now? 
MEL-J5: Yep, yep. I was moving on to Lynn's response and the reason that I wondered if you were reading all of that simultaneously, was because Lynn gave a very similar response to you right down to mentioning the "Five Whys" specifically.
JON 5: Oh, yeah I see that.
MEL-J5: Yeah.
JON 5: Interesting, okay. Yeah, that's hard -- Yeah, okay let me just skim through this before I talk more. Yeah "Challenges of asking a question to get maximum benefit from a student input", yeah that's basically what I'm saying. Inquire, listen, don't tell, that's kind of the initial response. Yeah, I guess I've been trying to, Mel -- Yeah and I think it's -- I don't know. 
The stuff is not unique to design certainly, I mean the kind of this idea of inquiry and listening, and as a way of interacting is -- For me this goes way, way back to all the sacks of humanistic psychology from the 40s and 50s and 60s. So, if you look at Carl Rodgers and client-centered therapy, it's so parallel to what we call 'design thinking' or 'human centered design' today just with a different kind of -- A different person involved and a different outcome, one of therapy instead of designing something so --
MEL-J5: So one question I asked Lynn at least, I don't remember about Rob, but I asked Lynn after she had responded to my comment like that, I said, "Have you always thought this way?" And of course Lynn said, "'Always' is a very specific word Mel." I said, "Okay, how long have you thought this way? Can you remember when you did not think this way?" Because then this isn't -- And she hadn't, and she described, she told the story of how her mindset shifted and how it used to be more Mark [Mahoney]-ish, and now she's giving a very similar answer to the answer that I hear from you, but she described that as a definite process of growth for her, at Olin, I believe. 
And so I'm wondering, for you, the response you just gave the way you sort of see that through environment situation, how long has that been occurring? Can you remember when you would look at Mark's response and say, "Well obviously, yes."
JON 5: Yeah, I do think a lot of this can be attributed to my growth at or after coming to Olin. And I think it started with the initial set up, the whole partner year thing. The asking myself the question of what is this thing? And what are we doing here? And why are 30 18-year olds on campus working with us? 
And I think Mark Somerville loves to tell the story of the eight-year curriculum, I think moments like that where you will sit in a room and have a 15 member faculty and 30 students each standing up and espousing to kind of know what the answer is or what the most important thing is, maybe not the answer but, or a very important thing is and kind of recognize really on that this sort of thinking isn't gonna get us to any kind of desirable outcome when it comes to creating something that is for everyone. I think there were enough moments like that early on, is basically the seed planting thing and --
I suppose I could have decided to let those seeds die, just ignore it and kinda hold true to this kind of, "Well, I know material science, I know what's best for students". Or, "I know engineering, I know what's best for students." But I didn't, so I guess my mind or my heart or my soul served as some fertile ground for whatever seeds were dropped in there in the early days of Olin. And more than just kind of dropped in there, I think I actually did a lot of work to nurture those seeds by, as I mentioned, starting to look more deeply into where this way of thinking came from. 
And that directed me toward all the humanistic psychology stuff which goes way back of course. And starting to read and starting to question my own way of thinking, and shifted ever so slowly and gradually. 
And I would say it's not over yet for sure. I have a long way to go. I'm still trying to find the right kind of input that will help me continue to grow in this direction. So yeah. So I'd say I've learned a little bit and I've got a few process tools but, yeah, it's nowhere close to being done.
MEL-J5: So when you say that you realize that you did, in fact, have a certain kind of respect for students. But do you remember what triggered that sort of realization? Was there something that happened that you know that --
JON 5: Wait, can you ask that -- When I said I -- What did I say? I didn't have a lot of --
MEL-J5: I think I heard you saying that, "I'm an engineer. I don't have a lot of respect for students." (Note in hindsight: What I heard had been Jon saying "I know engineering, I know what's best for students" -- and I'd misheard it as "I know engineering, I have no respect for students.")
JON 5: Oh, maybe I said that, I don't know. Did I say that earlier when I was commenting to Mark or did I just say that? 
MEL-J5: Oh, just now. Maybe I misheard you.
JON 5: I think you might have misheard me.
MEL-J5: I think I misheard you. My gut -- That didn't sound like something Jon would say.
JON 5: No.
MEL-J5: And actually now I have a transcript, or soon to be a transcript record, of the reason why I typically try to use real time transcription.
JON 5: Exactly. So you wanted to ask me something, though. But was it tied to that, "I have a lot of respect for students" comment that you thought I said? 
MEL-J5: Yeah. I'm still trying to understand. You're describing these early realizations, working with the partners and sort of re-juggling your -- "What are students? What is the relationship I have with students? What is the relationship students have to the curriculum?" That entire giant complex matrix of connections. But is that something that -- Did you go into that situation part where you're going, "I am going to question these particular assumptions about the way I've used student-curriculum-faculty relationships".
JON 5: No, no, not at all. But I sensed the thing that I did begin to do very early on -- This is gonna sound really -- I don't know how this is gonna strike other people, but I like to think that I'm reasonably sensitive to, I guess, the emotional content of an interaction, the feeling in a room of people. 
And there was a lot of stuff in the early days of Olin, that to me, did not feel good or right. And it tended to be in this form of someone standing up and trying to shove their perspective or their opinion about what the curriculum ought to look like and what students ought to do down everyone's throat. 
And it oftentimes wasn't -- I'm using the 'shove it down the throat' metaphor but it wasn't framed that way certainly. These are mostly nice people and so they're doing things in a kind of a respectful way that had a lot of probably thought and consideration behind it. But it still didn't feel right to me when someone would stand up and say, "Well, all students should do blah, blah, blah." 
And I don't know, I think it's the difference between the -- I don't think this was explicit in the early days, but we had a lot of stuff that was presented as "We should do X, Y and Z", and then that was supported with rational arguments but not necessarily -- Not really considered through I guess an emotional lens.
So I don't know, I hate to make stuff up but you can imagine someone standing up and saying, "Well the best practices and pedagogy show that students should take a intro course in this, which leads to a course in this, and rationally these things logically line up and blah blah, blah." 
But then you look at the experience and you listen to what the person's saying and it doesn't, from an interaction perspective or from an emotional perspective or from, I don't know, maybe a -- Yeah, I guess maybe, I don't know. Or from maybe a motivational perspective which is some combination of maybe affect and in-cognition.
It just didn't resonate or it resonated in a very kind of negative way. So we had a lot of stuff like that going on in the early days of Olin and I think eventually, and maybe part of it was we were all new to the situation, some of us newer than others. And so there may have been a lot of sorting out of identities, like who am I? Why was I invited to participate in this Olin College experiment? What is my role? 
And so, these things might have been sort of test of those roles. Like, "Ah let me stand up in front of the crowd and say this thing," I don't think people are actually thinking this way but a test of identity or test of position in the social group, or something like that. 
In the same way we were experimenting with curricular ideas. I think we were probably experimenting with who we were and what our identities were as faculty members, or as instructors, or as learners, or as I guess, people more broadly. That was a bit of a rant. I don't know where I'm going with this, but I'm just talking. I'm sorry.
MEL-J5: No, this is great. And I'm also thinking back, you're talking about these reflective processes and the sort of sense making that's happening, but I also hear a lot of a sense of, "Whoa, the early days at Olin were super frantic go, go, go, go, go, go." Where were these spaces, where were these times where you were able to do that sense making? 
JON 5: Those were the headaches that I had when I was driving home from Olin. No, 'cause when I was on campus it was a lot of just, as you're describing, "Go go go, do do do, try try try, experiment experiment," a lot of activity. 
And then I think, even the moments that were framed as reflection also felt that way. Like, "Now, we're all going to reflect together in the next 30 minutes", and that's not really how reflection works in my mind, but that's just another kind of reflective bit or an input that could help with reflection for sure. 
But no, I think it was in the, maybe the quieter, calmer conversations that you'd have with one or two people, with students, with faculty where you start to get a better sense of who they were as a person and kind of the answer to the 'why' questions. Why is it that they're pushing this particular agenda, or curricular element, or way of interacting with students? It was the quieter conversations or the sitting at lunch, or having dinner with students that that would lead to that sort of thing.
And a lot of it frankly, I think a lot of the reflection happened sort of after the fact. I think we spent years with, I actually just presented this to a group last week, a group of faculty. I described the first few years of Olin just as this intense exploration and experimentation, and there was a phase after that that I think that, at least for me, the primary or the dominant activity was one of trying to figure out what the heck just happened. What did we just create? What did we just do? And how did we end up where we ended up? And so the reflection, I think in a lot of cases, kinda happened well after the activities. But I do think the seeds for that reflection were planted all along and some of those were starting to grow already.
And then the identity thing is something that I started struggling with is, personally very early at Olin. I didn't know why I was hired. I didn't know what I could contribute, and then when we started actually implementing project-based learning or designed studio-based learning, I quickly realized that I wasn't equipped in too many ways to do that, that I had to actually shift identity, shift skills along with it. 
I did have some skills I think that have served me really well, and one of them is, earlier when you were talking about the group, the team formation, is that for whatever reason I oftentimes will end up in this kind of gel or glue role in a team. So that's always been the case I think. I mean that's been the case for me for a long time. I didn't actually realize that that could actually be useful as a college instructor 'cause I'd never done any team teaching before coming to Olin, or team course design.
MEL-J5: Check, how are you on time right now? 'Cause there's one big chunk of things I'd really like to show you, but if we're running short on time, we can wrap up and save that for the last one. But it rose very nicely from the conversation we've been having now.
JON 5: Let's give it a shot. Can you think we can do it in 10 or 15 minutes? 
MEL-J5: I think so. You read pretty fast.
JON 5: Alright.
MEL-J5: So we can continue this discussion next time also.
JON 5: Okay.
MEL-J5: So if you look at page five --
JON 5: Page five. Wait, do I have page numbers here? 
MEL-J5: It's the Lynn-Jon Sarcasm.
JON 5: Oh, okay. Read this? 
MEL-J5: So, untangling that first part, so Lynn had, in one of her transcripts earlier, said, "Yes, we do know what we're doing. Why do you ask?" About UOCD.
JON 5: Mm-hmm.
MEL-J5: This was your response, and then the rest of it is then going, "Ah that's interesting."
JON 5: Oh, this is interesting.
MEL-J5: Yeah, I thought so also. Then, the last two pages of the prompt Rob was reacting to that page. You can decide whether you want to read and throw in the Rob stuff and that. But, I just wanted to throw this out at you because it connects in fascinating ways to everything that we've been talking about before.
JON 5: I've actually had some -- Let me continue reading before I comment. Should I go on to read page six stuff? 
MEL-J5: Yeah, six and seven, they're a bit long. The reason there's "Remembered Rob" and "Narrator Rob" and "Narrator Mel," "Remembered Mel" is I bungled up the audio recording and so Rob and I reconstructed what we remembered on Thursday.
JON 5: Oh gotcha.
MEL-J5: Yeah. So, the narrator is like, "This is us reconstructing things. We think we said something like this."
JON 5: This is really nice of Rob to say.
MEL-J5: That curiosity of 'this is an experiment, let me try this out'? 
JON 5: Yeah.
MEL-J5: Which, by the way, when you were responding to my comment earlier, that's exactly what you did. You were saying, "I would ask if I applied," I would say, "Well, it's not welding, it's something bigger than welding, underneath welding."
JON 5: Yeah. I like this. Stop. What do we really think about this stuff, what do you actually mean? Yeah, I do that.
MEL-J5: You brought up the identity stuff earlier, and I was going, "Oh my God, this works so well with the prompt that I made, oh man."
JON 5: Yeah, there's something else that I do -- This goes back to what I was saying earlier. There's something else I do in committee meetings and that is, I -- And, it's not about thinking, it's about feeling, and I'm still learning how to do this, but to hit the pause or the stop button when things don't feel right in the meeting, in terms of the way people are interacting with each other. That's something I'm still learning to do. Its one of my goals right now, actually.
MEL-J5: Oh, cool.
JON 5: Kind to trying to gain some facilitation skills. The more I'm going to get that kind of emotional content of that interaction side of things as opposed to the cognitive or rational content.
MEL-J5: We need to talk about that when I get to Olin because I've been doing a bunch of things in that regards, outside of academia, actually.
JON 5: Oh, that's cool. I'd love to hear about it Mel.
MEL-J5: Yeah, we have much to catch up on, but okay. So I see that you're on the last page.
JON 5: Yeah, I'm right here. Interesting. I probably am biased towards the mistakes, because to me that allows connection to people. 
As opposed to biasing towards the successes, because to me that creates distance between myself or Olin and other people, and I like closeness. It may be just a mechanism of interacting thing. 
My preferred method of interacting is to basically open up and just say, "I'm a complete mess as a person and we're a complete mess as an institution, but I suspect that we can find in that mess some connection points to each other," right? 
And that's kind of my mode of operation in all my consulting, in all my workshops. And it's worked well for me, and it's possible that that approach maybe wouldn't work for other people. Yeah, so I guess I'm struggling right now with kind of the --
MEL-J5: Yeah.
JON 5: Okay. Lynn and I had a pretty emotional conversation about this after one of the Summer Institutes where I basically said, "Look -- " Actually this is quite going into the following year I think. Where I said, "Look, I don't want this session to be one where we're sugar coating things or where we pretend that everything is resolved in just a phenomenally wonderful way at Olin. I wanna present what I do is the real story." 
But then maybe that says something about me, right? Maybe the real story to me is always a mess and maybe the real story to Lynn is one of mess leading to resolution or success. So that's kind of interesting actually.
MEL-J5: Yeah.
JON 5: To me, it sounds like a nice area of research or what is the real story. Yeah.
MEL-J5: So, yeah. I guess hearing that, but as for the peeking at the clock, I know we're gonna do this again next week and it will be the last time. Is there anything in particular you'd like to look at or talk about or revisit knowing that that's gonna be the last time? 
JON 5: Oh my goodness, I don't know. I wanna do whatever's gonna be helpful to you, Mel, so --
MEL-J5: Okay, but I have a strawman proposal but you can totally modify it.
JON 5: Okay, let's hear it. Or do you wanna present it next week? 
MEL-J5: Okay. So it sounds like there may be more to unpack in this sort of identity-relationship space. Did you, Lynn, Rob, the early days -- Everybody has different viewpoints on the very complex period that went down. So I'm thinking I could actually, coming back to the last three periods of this prompt and we could see if anything has happened with you since then. And then one thing I did with Rob that was a lot of fun, it was I actually showed him some of my preliminary results and then we talked about them. "Okay, here are the big things and things and structures that I'm seeing from all six participants. Does this stuff pass with you?" Like a big step back member check. So those are two things that I'll just kinda put out there and does that sound good or is there anything else that you think you might add? 
JON 5: No, I think that sounded great.
