JON 2: Yeah that’s enough. You said you're going to take a look at, um, I missed couple of words. You are going to take a look at what?
MEL-J2: The Google doc that you've got on your screen right now is all taken verbatim from what you said last time.
JON 2: Right, okay.
MEL-J2: So we're just going to take a look at that. There are 6 chunks that I pulled out and reworked, because I thought, oh, this is cool. So you look at that for the next round of storytelling.
JON 2: You have already extracted these. Got you. For some reason I thought this was the whole transcript but no it is just excerpts.
MEL-J2: Some of these are already from several different places when you talked about the same thing and I went smush, smush, smush, smush, smush! We will work through this and talk about it for a while and take a little bit of the while and come back to the transcript of what you just said.
JON 2: Sounds good. You are hearing me yawn right now, and that might be a recurring theme. It is not that this is boring to me, I am just exhausted today.
MEL-J2: All right, so we might make this one a shorter one.
JON 2: All right. So. You want me to look at this first excerpt and talk about it?
MEL-J2: Yeah. 
JON 2: Give me a second and I’ll take a look.
MEL-J2: All right. Take as much time as you need.
JON 2: Interesting. The smooshing is interesting. I think it is interesting, because to me, so I've got why I was hired on the first part, or why I think I was hired, or what I think people saw in me. And then I have got, in that first sentence, and then a section on kind of how I communicate my Olin identity and my time at Olin to other people, in the first couple of sections, these two.
And then this last part is really more of, from my perspective was what it that was appealing. This was from other peoples perspective, the people hiring me, the first part and then this is kind of how I communicate, or how I begin to communicate my time at Olin to other people, and then the last part for me is very much, I guess it is part of what I communicate to other part but it is kind of what was the draw for me in going to Olin. Yeah. 
Actually, when I am talking to other people about why I chose to go to Olin, I do tend to emphasize how long I have been here, that I was here at close to the beginning, not the first round of faculty hires, not officially founding faculty but then I quickly say, look, this job to me was really an opportunity to do something that is quite rare and that is to create something entirely new, would be the aspiration, that that thing would not look like what exists out there.
Just to tie to your study, the design and creativity piece of it was something that really stood out in my mind when I first learned about Olin.
MEL-J2: One of the reasons why I pulled that part is, one of the things that I hypothetically told my committee might be interesting in this study, is how people talked about their identity as teachers and how their identity as teachers changed through the process of going through this curriculum design process, thinking about design and this is definitely an identity piece, actually half of it is your introduction. But you are not really talking about teaching, I don’t know about this as a teaching identity thing. You are talking about you are a teacher, but--
JON 2: Mm hm. Well, I guess -- well, yeah. Maybe it is not there explicitly but creator, designer, is, yeah it is funny, I never really thought about this. It is certainly part of my identity now, one of the things I oftentimes say is I design nontraditional learning experiences for a group of undergraduate engineering students. Or I leave off the last part, I am a designer of nontraditional learning experiences. It is very much how I define myself.
It is funny, because if I think back to the early days I would have never said that. Although I would say yes the opportunity to be creative and design new things is really exciting, I don’t think I would have described myself in the same way back in 2001. In fact, I am quite sure I wouldn’t have as I do today.
MEL-J2: What would you have said then?
JON 2: That’s a good question. I have always been embarrassed -- maybe embarrassed is not the right word. I have been hesitant to say I am a professor, faculty member. What I would often times would say is something to the effect is I teach as a local college, something like that.
MEL-J2: That usually implies that you are a professor.
JON 2: But yeah, but not necessarily, but I am not using a title, which is for whatever reason, I don't know, seems significant to me. Some professors introduce themselves with a long list of titles, and that drives me crazy. And it always has. So I don’t know. I’m the so and so named professor of blah-blah blah and also the director of the center for blah-blah blah. I really don’t respond very positively to those kinds of introductions and so I don’t do that. 
MEL-J2: You were describing yourself instead in terms of verbs you carry out, actions you do.
JON 2: Yeah, I guess. so action oriented, actions I do, or who am I, I am a designer, that goes back and forth between who I am and what I do, rather than the, what is my title. And in the early career days I would have said, I guess I would probably focused on the word teaching, I teach engineering classes, or I teach at a local college
MEL-J2: You did just now, and last time in the first paragraph we are looking at, you talked about design and creativity as part of your identity and also how you would introduce that identity to other people. Is that something that is Jon of the present and not Jon of the past as well?
JON 2: This is something that is Jon of the present for sure and I would say it is a pretty gradual transition from Jon of the pass, this idea of being a designer is something that wasn’t there initially but then kind of increased as I started engaging and designing curriculum and started thinking of it more and more as, Oh I am actually doing design right now, I am creating new things that didn’t exist before. I am using a bunch of design thinking, process and tools in doing that.
So I would say if you go back to, I don’t know, go back 6 years to 2008, I would probably have had the identity as a designer at that time. If you go back to 2002 or 3 when I was first getting into creating new courses in curriculum, maybe not so much.
MEL-J2: Okay that might be something that I ask about as we go through the other excerpts, talking about does this have any effect on Jon the designer identity. Anything else on that first bit that strikes you? Or a story that reminds you of, yeah, this was a big design at Olin moment. You have got 5 more, so if not...
JON 2: No I think we can probably move on.
MEL-J2: I know you’re tired...
JON 2: Yeah. I guess I will mention one more time, ever since our last conversation I often think about this middle part, why do I always have to tell people, or why do I feel it is so important to express to people that I arrived at Olin before students did. 
The meaning behind that for me is that I arrived here before we actually had anything already in place and created, which is very much from my perspective the way it was. 
Yes, I guess important, I guess it must be important to me that other people see me in some way as a designer capable person or someone who is actually interested in that. Maybe so much capable, but at least certainly interested in jumping into those kinds of settings.
MEL-J2: Even without you having been at Olin from the start, at this point I think you would have other evidence of that, you teach UOCD, the faculty workshops, you wouldn’t need to pull out that particular credential to say I am interested and capable of doing design.
JON 2: Yeah, yeah. So maybe it is something about what I want--I don’t know, that’s a good question. I don’t throw around titles and I don’t like putting together CVs, providing a long list of journal publications and workshops I have run, and blah-blah blah. But I actually enjoy the idea of people seeing the stuff that I feel like I have had part in designing or creating. I don’t know that’s an interesting one. I need a psychology gist for this. 
MEL-J2: You have Jon Adler now.
JON 2: (laughs) Yeah.
MEL-J2: Is that something you didn’t notice before the last time we talked? I am kind of surprised that surprised you.
JON 2: I guess I am just trying to figure out why I have this need to express this. I am trying to figure out what is really behind it, what is that really about, and I’m not sure. It is almost like don’t look at me, look at the stuff I have created kind of response, I think. I am not sure that makes any sense.
MEL-J2: We can also take this out to Rob and Lynn and see what they make of it. Dropping down a bit to your experience and Olin as a contrast-- this is your description of what I think traditional design is when we talk about the thing Olin doesn’t do.
JON 2: Yeah. I am not sure what to add at this point, other than--maybe we talked about this last time. But when I was in mechanical engineering as an undergraduate, I had just enormous frustration on what was going on in classes as design. These were classes in the curriculum. Late junior or senior year I had a stream of courses labeled mechanical engineering design maybe 1 and 2, something like that. So I looked forward to these courses. I went through all these other analysis courses, kept looking at these things thinking it is going to be awesome when I get to mechanical engineering design, I will be creating, designing new things. 
I got to these courses, it wasn’t about design at all, it was more analysis -- the authors of my mechanical design book and it was one analytical problem after another it wasn’t really design at all, I don’t think. 
At the same time I was working at my father’s failure analysis consulting and testing company in Dallas. I would work there some weekends and evenings there. I was doing real analytical work which was much more complex, but also designing fixtures, testing rigs, doing pretty simple mechanical design. I kind of knew what was going on in the real world. Also I was interacting with real mechanical engineers, they were designing, building, and fabricating and testing things all the time and bringing them to the lab for us to test.
I kind of knew what I was getting in school wasn’t design and it was really frustrating. Things have changed a little bit now a lot of programs realize what they have been calling design for decades is not really design, but even the newer definitions of design are still, I would say, small or constrained or only part of what we at Olin and other places have adopted as a definition of design which is sort of that broader view, people to people perspective
MEL-J2: Yeah, I'm not trying to set this up as an Olin does this right, everyone else does it wrong thing, just -- the notion and definition of design is such a complicated and subtle thing. We have to put it in one bullet point in our curriculum for high school students to look at, and it never works.
JON 2: Yeah, right. I am not sure what else about this second paragraph. Did you have particular questions or prompts about this?
MEL-J2: No, we can, you know, there are 6 of these, maybe 2 or 3 of them will be awesome and 3 or 4 will be eh, if it doesn’t strike you, we’ll move on.
JON 2: Okay let’s move on. (pause) I am laughing, I miss those days actually, I really do. 
MEL-J2: Do you still agree with that? Or is today making you reconsider?
JON 2: I still miss those days. This actually came up in a conversation I had with Allen Downey -- when was this? Last week I guess, with one of our faculty candidates, I was asking about approach, this faculty candidate's approach to designing courses, if he actually had a particular approach in mind, like a process, a design process. Allen kind of responded with something which I thought was typical insightful Allen. He said, "You know, we didn’t have much of a process to begin with, we oftentimes created things that did not have any explicit or well defined learning goals."
Some of these were actually things that initially were in the design stream. Like the POE class, the principles of engineering class, this was a course that as -- from my perspective, I don't know if this is true, but it's from my perspective, this course is kind of a little bit of an artifact of a curriculum revision, where we ended up with 4 extra credits and we weren’t quite sure what to do with it, so we gave it a label called principles of engineering, I don’t know who came up with the name, but we just wrote it on paper, hey, this would be a nice place to put a course where students do some design and analysis and fabrication, design fabrication analysis. And that was about all that was on paper for a long time.
Once we got to the point where we started making the teaching assignments to that course and I happened to get assigned to teach it, or maybe I volunteered, I probably volunteered, I am maybe stupid that way and then came the task to kind of figure out what was the course was and we approached it different ways, Brad Minch was teaching it at the same time also. I tried some stuff and Brad tried some stuff and I really think the goals of the class were emergent over time.
That was true of a lot of courses at Olin we created. Courses that were maybe interesting project ideas, maybe interesting product or deliverable ideas, perhaps interesting processes, and then over time we got a sense of what was actually happening in those experiences, and then we went back and labeled what the goals were of the experience after the fact. Kind of interesting, I think.
MEL-J2: I was part of Brad’s first round POE class. I remember the first class he walked in he said my name is Brad Minch, this class is principles of engineering, that’s all they told me, too.
JON 2: Yes. Yeah and Brad and I had a conversation before we started developing our different sections of POE -- I don’t know if you remember, Mel, I taught a class that was mechanical in flavor.
MEL-J2: Yes. And we were so jealous because they didn’t have to program in assembly
JON 2: They didn’t have what?
MEL-J2: We had -- nowadays I hear the kids are using-- sorry, students, they’re not kids -- students are using Arduinos. We had PICs, the kind if you want to reprogram, you got tweezers, pull it out of the circuit, put it in the UV light and wait for 18 minutes, put it in this big chunky machine thing and it’s 5 more minutes for the new program to load on, and the program is written in assembly.
JON 2: That’s what you are getting at. I had a class where we learned assembly language or something similar to that back in 1992 or something like that.
MEL-J2: It was not a happy time. (laughs)
JON 2: (laughs) It sounds terrible. My students in that class, I thought it turned out pretty all right and I learned a lot and they learned a lot. It was miserable at times but in the end, we ended up with pretty interesting products that are still being used in the materials science lab. We've got some Instron [test machine] pictures and stuff. I had no idea what to do with the class though. All I knew is we wanted as the faculty to have design, fabrication, and analysis component to it, so I did what I kind of knew about it, which was statically simple mechanical systems.
But yeah back to the thing I said in the last interview, I do actually miss the days of sort of jumping into something with the general notion of what it might be or could be but not really having it so well designed or thought through or so well developed. Not that everything that we create now works right, but we go into most things with a pretty clear idea of what the goals are, and what the activities will be and the assessments will be and the general sense of outcomes we're shooting for, so a lot more intentional now than we used to do, and a lot of that is we have more understanding and we have more tools. But yeah, there is something to be said for try something, just jump in, don’t think too much about it beforehand and see what happens and then kind of go back and scaffold or design around the emergent goals.
Rob and I kind of did this with the Stuff of History course too. We tried things with intention it didn’t end up exactly what we thought but then we reflected on it and pulled out key ideas and key goal and restructured the class around that.
MEL-J2: And now ironically when you’re teaching faculty workshops you’re all, you need to know your goals!
JON 2: It is really kind of funny, and the irony is not lost on me. And actually I had a conversation with a group today, the group from Brazil, they wanted to see a process for detailed course design. After you have goals and after a general sense of what students will be doing, the activities, and what you will be assessing for and turning in, how do you get to the next level of detail? I stepped them through a process I used to create a course a couple of years ago. There is a lot of detail, a lot of different levels of this process, and I printed this whole thing, and then at the end had to say, "But honestly we created a lot of courses without any of this structure, without any of these tools. We just kinda had an inkling of what could be, and jumped into it, and then later identified what was actually happening in that experience and what the goals were."
I tell people it is great to be intentional but sometimes you have a great idea for somethings students could do or something students could create, and you just want to try it, and I don’t think there is anything wrong with mapping back to goals from things like activities or products. In my mind there is nothing wrong with that. I think the important thing is that you at some point kind of reflect or at many points reflect on the process and eventually figure out what it is you are doing. So the blindness goes away at some point. 
MEL-J2: When we take our typing break there is a thought I have on that I think you might be fascinated by.
JON 2: Yeah, love to hear it.
MEL-J2: What’s next? If you read something that is like, eh, just skip it and read the next one.
JON 2: One of the things that also strikes me about this third paragraph is that I still think, maybe this goes back to what I said in the first interview, there is a lot of people at Olin having the discussion about design, what that means or what it could mean and how it is changing over time. And I think one of the areas that we still aren’t particularly good is the what happens after you have got a design, once you deploy something, well, number one, how do you get it out into the world and what happens after you get it out into the world. Sort of playing all of the society impacts broadly, economic, political, cultural, environmental. I don’t think we are very good at that yet. I think we are still kind of struggling in that area.
MEL-J2: The statement you just made, what level are you saying that at, are you saying we haven’t figured out how to get students to do with technical products, or Olin hasn’t figured how to do that with its educational approach?
JON 2: Well, I would say--so I think we do more of this than a lot of places, but it's not enough from my perspective. And when I say it's not enough, I mean we don’t spend enough on conversations on of -- well I guess technology in particular. But anything that we design, about how it is going to interface with the real world and this complex human system or organizational system or technical system that is out there already, we don’t actually have that discussion in too many places at Olin. 
You see it come up here and there. The Stuff of History class, Rob and do I it a little bit. We could do more. The sustainability class, which maybe only 10 Olin students sign up for, we spend a lot of time on this, much more in an analysis side than design side, analyzing behavioral patterns and existing impact and existing structure. But I think we could do more.
I could imagine in UOCD, even if you end up with a prototype, I can imagine taking a time in UOCD being devoted to what happens when you deploy in the real world, not just from a user perspective, but a broader perspective. And then later students actually will Ihave an opportunity to build something, or to do some design for manufacture, or the SCOPE [capstone] projects, I don't know I haven’t been a part of SCOPE for a long time so maybe I shouldn’t comment. But when I did it, many years ago, this was back in 2008 I think, there wasn’t a lot of effort or time devoted to thinking about broader implications or things we were working on. Much more targeted, kind of technical problem solving effort.
So. Although I think we do a great job on the front end, the people who contact your prototype, I think there's still a huge opportunity to do more on the implementation and impact side of things. And maybe this is where Olin's entrepreneurial emphasis comes into play, or perhaps I would say the lack of entrepreneurial emphasis at Olin.
MEL-J2: Next time we talk, I will bring in what Rob said about that, because I think the two of you would have fun bouncing those ideas off each other.
JON 2: That sounds good. Yeah, I've also, I've talked with Rob a lot about this, but maybe not in the same way you've talked to Rob, so I would love to hear his take on things.
MEL-J2: The short version is he framed it as a relay race where UOCD people start the students off, and then they pass the baton of to the entrepreneurship people or to his classes in history, sometimes, broader context is the next leg. And what you're saying is maybe, maybe that next leg in the race isn't as well developed as we'd like.
JON 2: Yeah, I don't really think it's there, in a, it's kinda spotty. It shows up in a few areas in a few classes, in a deep and significant way, but I think it is possible that a student would go through Olin, without considering the broader implications or impacts of something that you create, I think that is possible. Do you think that is possible? I am not sure. Do I believe what I said? I am having a conversation with myself right now, in case you didn't notice. I don’t know. What do you think, Mel? Do you think that's true? Do you think you can go through Olin without ever really deeply considering the broader implications or impacts of something that you create?
MEL-J2: Well, first of all, [I'm just] one data point from the second class, right? If you're asking me? Things have changed and all that. So Olin definitely, at least for me and other students as far as my perception of all of us, it gets in our heads really strongly, that the things we do and make as engineers have tremendous ripple effects on the world and we need to talk about that and think about that and be responsible. We don’t learn how to chase down every single possible type of ripple effect all the way out. Because you can’t do that in any 4-year program ever. You would spend the rest of your life -- it's like, can you put all the universities over all time ever in your head.
JON 2: But I think the fact that it is really impossible to do, I don’t know, for me it is not an excuse to not try or to not spend more time on it and I say this in part on what I have learned from my teaching colleagues in the intro to sustainability class. In a couple of short semesters by just listening and talking to them and learning their perspective from environmental science or business, I have got so many more ways of looking at things now, so many more tools in my toolbox, if you will. And such a broader perspective in a relatively short time. And no I don’t have all the answers, I can't analyze it all in depth, nobody can. But maybe my system model of the world is far more complex than it used to be and I think you can only get that by interacting with people who are outside of engineering, I think.
In my mind it begs for more integration, more Robs. And I think, yeah, see I am trying to decide how critical I want to be of Olin. I don’t want to be that critical. I think we do amazing things here. There as lot about UOCD I absolutely love. It is spot on, it really is doing things differently and helping students, it i really a transformative experience for faculty and students. 
The thing that I wish we would do is take it beyond the user group. And say, okay, well, you have made the user group happy with this new concept, this prototype. What about all the rest of the world, or at least some of the other pieces of the puzzle. Is design really about making a particular group of people happy or relieving some pressure point or pain they are experiencing.
For me, it is not just about that, and maybe this is going on too much of a tangent. I guess I would like to see, okay, so you have addressed some need or identified an opportunity for your particular group of people that you are working with, you have proposed this thing, if you deploy this in the world, how is that going to interface or interact with all the other stuff out there in the world and all the other people out there in the world. 
When I say all, I don’t mean all. I mean, let's actually consider -- let’s start building more context around that design so we can understand it and play out some of these impacts or implications and get better at predicting things you might initially say you can’t predict, or that are too complex or complicated to predict. Does that make sense?
MEL-J2: It does. if you like I can be critical of UOCD and Olin for you. 
JON 2: (laughs)
MEL-J2: So one of the things that you were talking about your last interview which has come up here also, talking about you miss the messy parts and your perspective is broadening, back in the day when Ben came on and UOCD came into being, and that was a tremendous learning experience and you formalized UOCD and it became a thing and as far as I can tell the UOCD is the same now it has reached a steady state.
JON 2: Pretty much. And how do we think about that, or what do we think about that. It is not just true of UOCD. Look at Design Nature. It hasn’t really changed since, oh gee, since they started doing wall walkers which was 2004 maybe. Like fall of 2004. Design nature is nominally the same course as in 2004. That’s a decade. Same with UOCD.
MEL-J2: So the courses reach steady state. But you guys did not reach steady state, as faculty, as people, I don’t know you don’t like the term faculty, but as teachers and people who are learning constantly as well. It is almost like, I don’t know, like when a lobster gets too big for its own skin.
JON 2: It is funny you bring this up. I grabbed a piece of paper. The other day, faculty, staff, and students were invited as part of spirit week to draw a framework or model of something in a public place and allow people to comment on it which I thought was kind of interesting. I intended to get to wherever this location was and draw, the thing that I was going to draw was a little, a very simple system, I guess you call it a systems dynamics diagram, a little model, showing a reinforcing loop within Olin.
If you have faculty experimenting, coming up with new ideas, experiment developing those ideas leads to more innovative classes, spark new ideas and this is kind of a reinforcing loop, okay. You have at Olin a couple of very important balancing loops to that, and they are both kind of external, I think, if a faculty member develops a good idea and that starts to get attraction outside of Olin, everybody comes looking at you to take your time.Their intentions are good, they want to learn from you, change things at their institution, and people like me and Ben and Lynn and start doing consulting work outside of Olin and it is really not contributing toward developing, it is a little bit contribute new ideas at Olin but it is basically about developing our understanding about what we are doing so we can package and communicate to the outside world. So that loop of interfacing with outside people, helping them develop ideas, spending time on packaging and communicating, translating our stuff, because it involves our time, is directly balancing the amount of innovation we are able to do within Olin.
And there is another balancing loop in my mind, and that is external, they see something at Olin, they want to learn about the thing at Olin, that drives no change in the thing at Olin, that drives conservation of the thing. If everyone in the rest of the world is saying we want to do design nature or do UOCD like you do UOCD, then there is an input to our system to conserve that thing, keep it running so more and more people can use it and learn from it. That is different from the faculty spending time, kinda thinking about, what am I actually doing, what am I trying to do, and how can I package that for other people. Where was I going with that?
MEL-J2: Well, this might be a good time to let Beth take a typing break.
(non-transcribed conversation interlude, Mel notes follow, not verbatim)
JON (via Mel notes): I’m spending most of my time packaging and translating my courses, trying to communicate that creative process outside of Olin. And in doing so, I don’t have time for creating things at Olin.
MEL (via Mel notes): Are these mutually exclusive?
JON (via Mel notes): A lot of energy goes into learning to translate to other contexts, figure out what different groups of visitors will understand.
MEL (via Mel notes): Can you only share things if you freeze them? (insert open source software engineering analogy with “development” stream and release freezes here)
JON (via Mel notes): Ideally, we'd do that at Olin, but we haven't been able to maintain the moving stream. What keeps it going? A type of resource, an amount of resources, a mindset? One of the problems at Olin might be that the early creators bought into this vision of packaging later on, and so now they're not creating any more. But also maybe we're not allocating resources to keep the moving stream moving. Maybe we can hire packagers, but translating and packaging are really rare skills. Around the time you were graduating, we had admins who were pushing on the idea of steady-state, and you do 5 years of hiring with the idea of steady-state in mind and you get a very different composition of faculty and a different idea of growth.
MEL (via Mel notes): At the same time, that was when as alum we were all worried the faculty would burn out, so there was a logic to that steady-state.
JON (via Mel notes): You need to look at the cause of burnout. It wasn't just being tired and having no energy left, it was also contracts that asked us to be a different person than we were. Instead of doing creative stuff, be a normal faculty member. If I'm working on something I like, I have energy.
(transcription restarts)
MEL-J2: I think this all came from your one sentence of "I am ready to get back to the mess," and off we went for 20 minutes. Which, this is great. You never know what is going to hit people.
JON 2: I miss the mess. (pause) I think, another note on the mess, is that I recognize that I have a very high tolerance for uncertainty and ambiguity, and I don’t know if framing it for tolerance is accurate because I actually really enjoy jumping into unknown situations, and I find that those are really easy to find now if I go outside of Olin. If I am working with a group at another school creating a brand new curriculum or revising a portion of their program, the level of uncertainly and ambiguous gets ramped way up in the context and I really enjoy jumping into those situations. 
It is just, it is not the case at Olin any more. It is simply not the case. Things we consider large curriculum revisions, to me are incremental change. Things like tackling entrepreneurship at Olin, yeah, it's a big deal because we haven't really done a good job of thinking about it for a long time, but nominally it is one course, it's 4 credits in the curriculum we're talking about changing. That is not a high level of risk or uncertainty or ambiguity for me. Not high enough.
MEL-J2: That’s maybe why you put what you do in the introduction. Not just I can do design, but I like to do it in this crazy space which by the way is not what you see me in right now.
JON 2: Right, and maybe that ties back to that initial thing I like to express, I was here at Olin before students. Because telling people you took a job at a college without students is some illustration of some level of risk and ambiguous. Where were we.
MEL-J2: You had the UOCD story, when Olin was still this crazy stream of change
JON 2: (pause) Yeah, boy that is really taking me back again. Reading my words about Chris and Ben talking, I guess helping us all learn a different perspective on design. The thing that was so cool about that, when I was in UOCD, I attended the lectures as an instructor, right, but I was really just another student, because I would listen to Chris Heape talk and I would be just as confused as most of the students in the class. I would listen to Ben and it would take me forever to figure out what in the world is he saying, I don’t understand his words, I don't know any of this jargon, I don't know what he's expressing. I was actually loving every minute of it. From a learning perspective I thought it was fantastic. And maybe part of that was I wasn’t even graded. But in some ways I was being evaluated by students.
MEL-J2: If you read the next paragraph, which is at the start of the next page, and match that up with the one prior, and read it as one big thing. You were describing, last time if I remember your tone of voice when you were describing when you and Mark and were sitting down and went, "Ohhhhh, shit." You sounded like, This is a bad moment, but also an important moment
JON 2: It is interesting. How do I resolve that with what I just said which was I was loving it. I think personally or individually, I was very much enjoying the learning process. But I am kind of slow in terms of taking a long time to chew on ideas, especially if they are brand new. It takes me a long time to fit things in my own mental model or change any framework in response to new input.
I think one of the reasons I was so paralyzed early on in UOCD is I was probably in the mode of doing more personal processing rather than interact with other people. I'm always like, I don’t know I tend to get a little -- I can’t do anything -- I don’t know. In a way, maybe this goes back to the packaging and communication discussion we were just having. If I am still at the start of a learning curve --
I don’t know, this is tough. There is a lot of things going on in my head right now. 
I am comfortable with ambiguity, but not if I am a facilitator or teacher perhaps. But I know that’s not really true. I feel comfortable in some situations. Maybe the domain of design, the way it was presented by Chris and Ben was so far out of my zone of thinking that I was still in the process of trying to integrate or connect to it. Does that make sense? I don’t know, this is interesting.
MEL-J2: This is the kind of stuff I find so fun about this project. Because I get to watch you and Rob and Lynn wander around in this reflection place and it is fantastic.
JON 2: It's pretty good. I am putting myself back in the situation. I am sitting next to Rob and we are sitting at our computers and not actually doing anything. I am quite sure that at that time I felt I didn’t have the skills or mind set or the domain expertise to be helpful to my students. And it was early enough, yeah, okay. This was back in what year? 2004? 2003 maybe? Spring 2004. So I hadn’t made it through the transition, much of the transition of being expert, its old way of being, so being coach-slash-facilitator, I wasn’t all the way through that at the time, so that was probably playing into it in part.
Okay, so here is a nice way to contrast it. In the sustainability class that I co-designed with Ben Linder and Beth (??) from Wellesley and Brad George (??) from Babson, fall 2011, so years after my UOCD experience, in that experience I never sat around, kind of twiddling my thumbs or paralyzed because I didn’t know what to do. I knew I didn’t know what to do and I didn’t have domain specific skills or knowledge in certain aspects of sustainability, but I had much better developed skills as a coach and facilitator so it was much more natural to enter into conversations in which I was completely ill prepared and not at all an expert. I think it was a combination back in 2003, 2004, of neither having domain skills or facilitator or coach skills, which left me kind of sitting there, does that make sense?
MEL-J2: You did design stuff before you came to Olin so there was a sense in which you knew how to deal with ambiguity, but facilitating is a different sort of ambiguity.
JON 2: And the design stuff I did prior to coming to Olin I would say fit the traditional. For example a company needs to test the strength of a particular component so I need to put together a test rig, design some mechanical system that can hold this thing in a particular machine, very constrained design. Or maybe on the more creative side, as a kid I grew up designing and building things all the time. Model rockets, various things like potato and tennis ball guns, I did a lot of things with my hands, woodworking, a lot of art, but compared to what I experienced in UOCD we were doing things like, seeing the world through someone else’s eyes before you begin to identify opportunities, that kind of stuff was really quite new to me and that is the stuff I was wrestling with and couldn’t help students with.
So combine that newness of that particular perspective or take on design, that definition of design, with the fact that I also didn’t have good facilitator skills meant that I didn’t do much of anything in the classroom for a little while. And so I recognized that I needed to actually start developing my facilitation skills while I was developing my domain knowledge and that was the big moment that Mark Somerville and I had in the classroom.
MEL-J2: Just as side note we have got about 15 minutes left. One of the things this reminds me of is assimilation, accommodation, the -- from Piaget, I’m really paraphrasing here. The idea of we keep on adding to our current models, our existing mental models until we have enough of the world that doesn’t fit that and we go Oh crap we have to restructure and then we have to come up with a new mental model and UOCD sounds like it was one of those things for you. Rob would say --
JON 2: Paradigm shift.
MEL-J2: (simultaneously) paradigm shift as a more society level.
JON 2: Or you might call it an unfreezing at least of the old mental model. If not completely wiping out and building. At least a loosening of it so you can start to bend it a new way. I think for me as an novice facilitator in the classroom, trying to do both at the same time was probably too much for me.
MEL-J2: What I am playing with in the sustainability course design context is that you already had a paradigm that worked for that so you didn’t need to restructure that.
JON 2: I had a way of being in the classroom, interacting, engaging, expressing, receiving from other people listening, I had that stuff down. It is just that I was working in a new skill and content domain. That for me, I don’t ever remember feeling paralyzed or uncertain or kind of almost scared in that classroom setting in that class. I just knew I had to basically be in this sustainability domain with the right kind of inputs with different people so that I could develop my understanding in that area. I didn’t have to simultaneously work on facilitator skills. That’s interesting, I think your summary was nice.
MEL-J2: Way back when I was in industry we did a little study on the professors that were going to teach open source to their students, getting them involved in projects. What looked from the outside like giant changes in the classes and some were struggling to do it, but they all wanted to, this doesn’t with correlate with anything, what is going on. We did a bunch of interviews and the faculty that did seemingly gigantic changes in the class room when we talked to them they said oh, this thing we already tried it in a classroom and this other thing was from when I shadowed other professor, that’s the space you are watching so it looks like all at once but clearly it was this progressive thing, we only changed one bit at a time. And the professors who were having a hard time and went quote, unquote slower, the only space for change they had to play with was this one course so it all had to happen there so it was slower. That’s my recollection of data analysis anyway, it’s been a couple years.
JON 2: It does make me wonder, the more we talk, Oh my gosh what am I asking students to do in my class and is it too much. I don’t know, it seems to work. I wonder in some classes, we push a little too hard on the mental model shift while we are also pushing too hard on the new skill building in a new domain like design or sustainability or contextual awareness or whatever. How much load can you put on students in those two areas before it is too much?
MEL-J2: At the same time part of the facilitator role is to help your students stay in that horribly uncomfortable space.
JON 2: Yeah and I think somehow we have managed to find the right level of these things in certain courses at Olin. I don’t know, something to think about, anyway.
It is funny, when I am working with groups outside of Olin and within Olin and people are changing about changing their paradigm, their way of interacting with students, one of the things I always say is keep in mind you are asking them to grow in different domains than what they might be asked to grow in other courses. Some courses might demand a lot of cognitive growth but science you ask students to collaborate with other people you have got social environment, a social learning aspect of the class that will be experienced by students as learning and growth and it takes time and effort and it is frustrating at times. 
It seems we ask students to plug into their own personal motivation and make the experience internalized, it's still a learning experience, you've got that emotional and motivational load you are asking students to bear, as soon as you start asking them to do things like control context in some way maybe through behavioral or maybe through the physical world, you're adding that in also. I recommend people think through what you are asking of students and if you're increasing one of these areas, try to decrease something else. 
It is not like I am not aware of these things, it is just I don’t think of them often times for myself.
(Beth loses the connection, Mel transcribes the following from the audio record after the call)
MEL-J2: I'm looking at the time, and in terms of -- is there anything else you are burning to say about the excerpts? The last one is mostly a discussion of how you talked about oh my gosh, back in the day we had so much space and time to reflect. You sort of touched on that a bit.
JON 2: Yeah, Mel, I can talk for a long time about that. This is sort of the drum that I'm beating right now. I say in the early days at Olin we had, we didn't really have well developed skills as facilitators, we didn't have a mindset really as creators and innovators in education, and we didn't have the domain, in terms of education or innovative pedagogy, we didn't have domain specific expertise. But we had tons of time. And we had tons of space to create. And we had lots of money, lots of resources. And we had an institutional mandate to be creative, to basically fill up the void with new and interesting things.
And now I think we're in the opposite situation. We have incredible capacity among our students and faculty right now. We know so much. We have such great domain knowledge in the area of educational innovation and change, we have incredible skills as facilitators, we see opportunities, but we don't have the other stuff. We feel like we don't have any time, we feel like we don't have any money, we feel like we don't have any space to create. And we no longer have a strong institutional mandate to create big new things. So.
(Beth started typing here again)
It's a little frustrating to be in sort of the opposite position. But I also recognize we are in a good space in many ways right now.
MEL-J2: We will definitely pick up from there on the next round. I will go and collect some stuff from Rob said and what Lynn said and start by taking a look at that. Especially with what you were just talking about. There is a lot of fascinating overlap there.
JON 2: Looks like we lost the link at the beginning of that.
MEL-J2: I have a backup recording so I can try to fill that in. It might take a few more days than usual to get the transcript because of that. (pause) Is there anything about, with the 6 excerpts, to kind of wrap up, is there anything to surprise you or struck you about what you said about those excerpts?
JON 2: Well, where I was fumbling what was going on with the whole UOCD thing when I was a novice in that domain, back when it was -- I guess I'm a little surprised that I wasn’t able to just pin down, this is exactly what was going on, this is what I was feeling and why, it actually took me some time to work through that, and I continue to think about that. I guess that surprised me a little bit because I have thought about that experience a lot, well maybe frequently, I should say. Certainly not at the level we just discussed it. I think it is great. I very much appreciate this.
MEL-J2: I definitely appreciate it. Thank you. But I think part of it was also, it seems like one of the things that triggered that to you was, we kinda put your words up there, what you said at two different times, and you went wait, is that a conflict. So there is something about actually seeing your words there.
JON 2: Yeah and thinking about what I meant when I said the words. In one case I am thinking Oh this is great and the next paragraph I am thinking oh, I'm terrified, and Oh shit I don’t know what I am doing. And yeah, seeing that on paper, it definitely had an impact
MEL-J2: Which means my research method is interesting! Woo!
JON 2: I would think so, yes.
MEL-J2: Ok, I think we can probably say, Beth, you're good to go...
