MEL-J6: Hey.
JON 6: How's it going? 
MEL-J6: I'm doing pretty well. How about you? 
JON 6: I'm fine. Just running around like crazy.
MEL-J6: You need a moment to catch your breath? 
JON 6: No. I'm okay. Just have a busier than usual morning of meetings.
MEL-J6: That's impressive. You seem to be having a very busy day, in general.
JON 6: Yeah. I got up and looked at my schedule for today and thought, "Oh boy, this is gonna be a tough one." I'm not big on meetings, as you might know.
MEL-J6: Yep. Okay. Well, we'll go for reflection mode, and see if we can wrap things up here.
JON 6: Awesome.
MEL-J6: Alright. So you have a transcript link in your chat. This is as I mentioned, the last interview, at least for the purposes of me graduating. We'll probably be keep on talking about this stuff someday.
JON 6: Yeah.
MEL-J6: But it won't have to be so structured, formal. So I'm waiting for you to show up in the document. I don't see you there yet.
JON 6: No. Did you send me a link? I'm sorry.
MEL-J6: I sent it, in the chat, yeah.
JON 6: I'm all mixed up. Oh, there it is. Okay. I'd somehow lost my chat window and I couldn't figure out how to get it back.
MEL-J6: There you go.
JON 6: Okay. I'm in.
MEL-J6: Okay. So, the big thing for this one is there's just a tiny little bit of new stuff, but it's mostly about wrapping up, making sure that we both feel like all the loose threads were so tied up and figuring out what, if anything, we've learned so far, I guess. This has been a really big learning experience for me and it sounds like it's also been a learning experience for you.
JON 6: Yeah. For sure.
MEL-J6: So one thing that I definitely wanted to get to was the stuff that came up last time about whether to include some of your transcript from last time. We can do that right off the bat or we can get to it later. I thought I would ask.
JON 6: Let's do that right off the bat.
MEL-J6: Okay. So as you can see, I just put that at the very beginning of the plan. This is everything that we flagged as, "Hmm, do we want to put this in here?"
JON 6: Yeah. I've been thinking a lot about this, and I think that I don't mind this stuff down here being included. I guess what I don't really want included is the more personal comments, like the reference to my being pissed off at what Lynn said or did. Let's see. So some of this is I think probably pretty good for you, right, to see? 
MEL-J6: Well, yes and no. I learned from everything, but don't put things out simply for the sake of, "Oh, I feel guilty and should give Mel more data. I can work... But if we take that part or a section out of the transcript and pretend it never happened, I can still work with that. That is absolutely fine.
JON 6: I think, in terms of reflecting on what I said and why I said it, the thing that I've been thinking the most about is some of the stuff that I said toward the end where my preferred mechanism of interacting is one of basically presenting the mess, because I feel like that's, for me, the best way to connect with people who are attempting to change what they're doing or change who they are, undergo some sort of big transformation in the education domain.
On reflection, I found it interesting. I guess I thought a little more about that approach as something that I, maybe, should have more open and explicit conversations with other people about, like how do we connect with people? What is the mechanism? What is the approach? What are the different approaches that we're gonna take? Can we actually try some different things and reflect on how it worked or how it didn't work? As opposed to just assuming that, "My way is the only way, it's the best way," which seems to be what I've been doing in the past. 
I think it's good that we had the conversation, for me, 'cause it enabled me to reflect on my assumptions about what's working and what's not working. Yeah, so okay. I feel like I'm rambling now, so I'm gonna shut up. Yeah, I guess back to that question of what to include and what not to include. I don't wanna include this. Can you see where I'm highlighting? 
MEL-J6: Yeah.
JON 6: I don't wanna include that. I think that's too personal.
MEL-J6: Okay. So, this is a direct copy from the last transcript. So let me... In Skype, I'm going to... Let's do this. I'm sending you a link to last week's transcript also. And so let's go there. At the bottom I highlighted it, and we can just cut off all the stuff we want to cut off right away. So we'll just have it be out.
JON 6: Okay. You got it highlighted, okay.
MEL-J6: Yeah, all the way to bottom.
JON 6: Okay. Search.
MEL-J6: And then I'll paste that. When we're done editing last week transcript, I will take this section and paste it back into your plan for this week's transcript, so they'll match.
JON 6: Okay. So I think we should cut this. Should I just delete it? 
(overlapping conversation)
MEL-J6: Okay, yeah, you can just delete it.
JON 6: I think we should probably cut this.
MEL-J6: Okay.
JON 6: I don't like... I think we should probably...
MEL-J6: And we can cut the whole thing if you want. I want you to feel okay with the transcript.
JON 6: Okay. Is it okay to cut part, and not a whole paragraph? 
MEL-J6: Yeah. And also, if you want to edit but...
JON 6: Like, do you see the part that I'm highlighting now? 
MEL-J6: Yeah, I see that.
JON 6: Alright, can I take out the reference to Lynn, and just keep the stuff in about myself? 
MEL-J6: Yeah, and in that case, I'm gonna take out my replies also, because then that'll make no sense since we're deleting what you said.
JON 6: Right. 'Cause I actually, I think this is important to leave in. Just a minute...
MEL-J6: It's okay. I'm wondering, so I highlighted one part down there, does that still make sense in the context? 
JON 6: No, not really. You can cut that out.
MEL-J6: Let me can take that out. Alright, so we'll cut that.
JON 6: Yep, and then down here, I think the part of this that feels really awkward to me in terms of my relationship with Lynn is what I'm... I'm being a little bit of a jerk. "Look! This is... " Yeah. I feel... Okay, so maybe...
MEL-J6: Well, also, also... Lynn had her last interview last night and as I promised, none of this came up. She was reflecting on her relationship with each of you, you and Rob both, and we talked about how... You and Lynn actually have a great working relationship. It's not like you dislike each other or anything.
JON 6: No.
MEL-J6: And I've brought up that just because you have a great working relationship with somebody doesn't mean that there's not room for improvement, and conversely just because there are some rough spots doesn't mean that you don't have a great working relationship. And so, the broader context of this is, you all know and like each other well enough to be able to talk about these things.
JON 6: Right. Right. Right.
MEL-J6: Which is kind of big deal.
JON 6: Yeah, it is a big deal. I think you can probably do this in, this last part.
MEL-J6: Okay. So you wanna change this one to be that? 
JON 6: Sure. Yep.
MEL-J6: Okay, so now stepping back, we've cut a whole bunch of last week's problematic bits. Are you okay with this part of the transcript now? 
JON 6: With the part that's highlighted? 
MEL-J6: Yeah.
JON 6: Yeah, I'm fine with this.
MEL-J6: Okay, cool. So I'm going to paste this there and go back to this week's transcript and put that in place, tack, spin. Alright, there we go. So now the plan has been updated and we have effectively rewritten history.
JON 6: Oh, man. I feel safer without this. Okay.
MEL-J6: No, no, no, no. Don't be. Well, part of my dissertation is that it's looking at things from a post-structural perspective of, "Okay, what is truth? Why do we get so nit-picky about certain kinds of truths?" And for me, this is being transparent about the fact that we're editing this text and the reasons we're editing this text... And by the way, unless you want to... So the past 10 minutes of conversation as we've been talking about, what we're editing, negotiating it, it's also being recorded.
JON 6: Mm-hmm. Yeah, I figured that.
MEL-J6: And we do have the option of restarting the interview now and pretending it's the first time and it just never happened, if you want. We can act as if you never said that stuff last week at all and it just never came up, and I can delete the first page of this plan and we can restart the conversation. That is also totally an option. Or we can leave it in and say, yes, editing happened here.
JON 6: I think we can leave it in.
MEL-J6: Okay. As usual, I'll send you the transcript, and I think it's interesting, because a lot of these are harnessing negotiation of meaning and...
JON 6: Oh, sure. Yeah.
MEL-J6: Yeah, we don't often... We don't talk about them much.
JON 6: No.
MEL-J6: But it happens. Okay.
JON 6: Okay.
MEL-J6: Is there anything else about last week in editing the transcript and stuff we said, that you feel... That you want to read back on? Because I don't wanna move on from this until you feel comfortable with...
JON 6: I'm looking back in the transcript from last time and I think... Is this the whole thing? 
MEL-J6: This is the whole thing.
JON 6: Wait. Am I in the right document? Oh, I'm supposed to be looking at Jon 5, is that right? 
MEL-J6: Oh, no. Jon 5 was last week's, and we were just looking at it so that we could make sure that we edited the part that...
JON 6: Okay. So I'm supposed to be looking at Jon 6? 
MEL-J6: Yeah. Jon 6 is the actual prompt for today.
JON 6: Oh, this is not the transcript from last week? This is the prompt for today.
MEL-J6: Yeah, this is the prompt, yep. Yeah, the first prompt was just, "Hey, we needed to look back and check on that from...
JON 6: Okay.
MEL-J6: The last time."
JON 6: Alright. Okay. So, I was just confused. So the prompt for today starts with identity, sarcasm, deciding what to include? 
MEL-J6: Yeah. And the rest of the prompts are normal prompt.
JON 6: So, where should I start now? I'm not sure what to do right now.
MEL-J6: Okay. I'll navigate you a little bit. So we've finished the first page of the prompt which was just deciding what to include, and that's all done. So the second page, we were in the middle of this discussion of this last time and wanted to look back through it from what my transcript tells me anyway. And so, remember [the section with] Rob and Mel? That's on the second page? 
JON 6: Yep.
MEL-J6: Yeah. Okay. So, this is the same thing as last week where Rob was talking about, "Oh, here is how I see the identities of just three Olin faculty in your study." And we had started talking about that a little bit.
JON 6: Okay. So, this is stuff I haven't read before.
MEL-J6: I think this is the stuff that you have read before, but you can look at it again and maybe... We didn't get to talk much...
JON 6: Oh yeah. I have looked at this last week, this is familiar. Okay. So, okay. Oh, yeah, and Rob talks about his facilitating discussion, blah blah blah. "What about Jon? What about Jon?" This is... I like this paragraph about Rob, it's like he's the magic, but we already kinda knew that. (chuckle)
MEL-J6: All of you have certain cognitive magic.
JON 6: In a nutshell, Rob is the magic. We call it the Rob effect; actually that's what I call it.
MEL-J6: See, everybody else talked about you having magic though, the ability to synthesize and... Some version of the Mark Somerville ability, you have your own flavor of it. So everybody has magical skill of some sort.
JON 6: Yeah, it's true. Actually at FIE, I sat a table with three students in [some location,] and we had a long discussion about what our superpower was or our magic power, I guess.
MEL-J6: Yeah? 
JON 6: Yeah, it's pretty interesting.
MEL-J6: So what's your superpower? 
JON 6: Well, it has nothing to do with synthesizing, I don't think... Well maybe it has a little bit do with it. I view my superpower as an ability to connect personally with a diverse group of people. So you can plop me down in a room and I will find something to talk about with anyone that I'm standing next to, and it's... 
And I think, I don't know, maybe it speaks to this thing that Rob is mentioning that I'm interested in what lies beneath in sort of how, not so much the surface level stuff, what people say or what they do, but kind of why, and so, I don't know, I think it's... I don't know. So, I guess I'm always looking for an initial connection and then I wanna kind of explore the connection a little bit with people, and I find that I can do that.
MEL-J6: And this connects for me... I think about two things you've said earlier. So last week when you talked about liking to see the mess and expose the mess, and then way back to your first, first, first interview, and the first thing I said was, "How do you wanna introduce yourself?" And you introduced yourself and you explicitly said, "I don't want to introduce myself as a professor, I don't wanna come across as that way."
JON 6: Yeah. I don't want people to see me as that, I mean, I guess I... I don't know, maybe this is part of the superpower of connecting with people but, I guess to... I like... I guess I have a real fondness for understanding people in all their complexity and nuance, and not as, "Well, she is an educational researcher, and he's a state trooper or whatever," and I don't know, and kind of searching for those interesting bits and possible connections with people is a lot of... It's interesting and fun and enjoyable for me.
MEL-J6: There's also... And it's just a bit of a random association, side content on my part here, but can't resist the temptation. I'm talking about, there was a performance aspect of this, the way that you present yourself, perform yourself, introduce yourself so that the people you interact with can respond and relate in a certain way to you, and I think about how that differs from... For instance, the way I would do things, I'm very conscious that I am a non-white, disabled, really young looking, and young female, so my performance is often to put myself up to say, "Yes, I am an engineer," or "yes, I am a graduate student."
JON 6: That's interesting.
MEL-J6: And your aspect is to not lower your own status, but to reduce that kind of dominance positionality? 
JON 6: Yep. No, I think that's totally true.
MEL-J6: But I think that's kind of cool that you are aware of that and that you're working on that, and that you're... And it's responding to the way people react by default to the things that you present as... That you know, when we look at people, we make certain assumptions because of how we have been conditioned by society.
JON 6: Right.
MEL-J6: And you've chosen to work with that in a particular way that I find really thoughtful and also intriguing.
JON 6: Yeah, and I think that's... I think that is, I don't know. I hate to... I think that's what has helped me so much in project based and studio types of classrooms where the interaction is more intense at the individual level, and I think that's one of the big drivers from my switching from being a lecturer or a performer on a stage, as it very much was, to one of facilitating learning processes in a project-based course, is it allows me to connect with individuals in a very different way, in a much more personal way, and a long axes that you wouldn't necessarily expect connections. So like understanding people and what they like and dislike or what frustrates them or excites them, that has nothing to do with the label, or the title of the course or the particular project that they're working on, to me is so interesting.
JON 6: It's also why I lose a lot of... In my research lab, we have a wall labelled "facilitation points" and everyone's name is on there, and everyone gets a facilitation point if they help kinda move the agenda along. Or say, "Hey, I think we're digging ourselves into a rat hole here I think." And so I'll basically... If someone will call out, "Ooh, facilitation point for Meg." Or "For Cynthia." or "For Alex." 
I have a negative infinity in facilitation points, that's what my students gave me, because a lot of my conversation is attempts at the more personal connection and exploration, and following interesting tangents and kind of letting that stuff play out. It's at odds with, oftentimes, our work agenda for the day, but it's serving a different purpose.
MEL-J6: But it's really nice to hear you describing that piece of philosophy, and while I'm conscious I can only do this with the old participants in the study, those, in memory I have of you as my professor, that well, you did exactly what you were just describing, and my team did not know how to respond to it. 
So we were doing the Intro Materials Science class and Rebecca was teaching it, but you had come in for the day to help out and give feedback on projects. And you stopped by my team's table, and you just chatted with us really informally about whatever we were taking apart, I think it was a hard drive. And you gave us some tips and feedback on things we might look at and stuff we might do, and then you moved on to another group and we all I think went...
MEL-J6: Or at least I went, "Oh, that was really cool of Jon to stop by, I like talking to Jon." But fast forward maybe a week or two later when we were presenting our projects and spin it, and we get critique. And the critique that came back, and this is the only critique I remember from the whole project was, "Hey, why did you guys not take into account the stuff that Jon was telling you to do?" And we were all taken aback and we went, "Oh, we didn't know that we were supposed to do that." (chuckle)
MEL-J6: We didn't register that in our minds as teaching and feedback we should respond to or anything like that, and so we got this little mini almost lecture not like "You've been bad" lecture, but "Oh, this is a learning moment, you need to... This is something you should know." From either you or Rebecca, I forget who it was, but it was basically, "Hey, that's teaching moment, you should pick up on it, that's part of the education. This isn't just 'let's have fun and hang out with Jon' time. It's for to do stuff with us." 
And I remember my team after class we clustered together 'cause we were certainly stunned by this and we went, "But we didn't know that." We had to re-categorize that interaction with you, because it was so far outside of our experience of teacher-ness.
JON 6: Yeah, yeah. No, I think what you're describing is yeah, it probably wasn't fair in that context because you weren't seeing me everyday, but there is always a bit of a warm-up period in my classes. It lasts about two weeks I would say, where the class is actively trying to figure out what the hell I'm doing and who I am, and why these interactions are the way they are.
And I can feel it, I can sense it, I can see it, like their gears are turning, they're trying to like process this kind of interaction that they've never had before, and eventually they kind of I think, begin to understand what's going on in a way that's interesting and helpful I think, but yeah, yeah.
MEL-J6: And I find that particular fascinating because this is... It's not like you're the only teacher at Olin that does projects, that does active learning or really gets to know their students, so I mean that's par for the course as far as I'm concerned, and this was not my first year of college, this was, I think, second semester, sophomore year, and I was already TA-ing classes and thinking a lot about pedagogy. And so I cannot speak for my group mates, but they were so, "That's different."
It has, by the way, that has made me register far more things as learning opportunities since then. It's re-categorized a large chunk of the rest of the world for me, so that I think I take advantage of a lot of conversations that I have now in ways that perhaps some of my classmates may not.
JON 6: That's great. I mean, I think it's a process for all of us. I know that I still miss so much in these small group interactions or one-on-one interactions that I have. I'll never forget the... I started a research study with a group of people a number of years ago that involved videotaping of ourselves in the classroom. It was a project-based course, it was Material Science, or maybe my failure analysis course. I think it was a failure that I am thinking about. But we videotaped all these sessions and we had everyone audio taped and I was wearing a lapel mic.
Then I had to process the videos and send them off to the educational researchers I was working with. I watched some of the videos, of course, while I was processing them, and I couldn't believe how much I was missing, not in the verbal exchange, but in the physical emotions of people, the looks on their faces, sort of the... I was missing some of the emotional content of the interaction.
JON 6: I think of myself as being pretty perceptive in these settings. Like I said, always looking for connections and trying to pick up on what people say and build on it.
But I watched myself, and I realized I was thinking so much about what I was going to say or thinking of so much about what the students were saying, that I was missing a lot of other stuff that was happening. 
For example, at some point I said something, and three out of four people at the table, their heads kinda went down. And I totally missed it at the time.
JON 6: Another time, there was some interaction, and one student kinda pushed back away from the table in response to something that was going on in the conversation. Again, I totally missed it at the time. 
I don't know, I think this is something that I'm very interested in continuing to learn about and develop this kind of skill of picking up on, not just receiving, but sort of facilitating in those situations. Yeah, I was actually, I was really kind of horrified at how, how much I was missing.
MEL-J6: One interesting experiment we could possibly try is, at some point in the next three years, if we manage to co-teach something, I will usually have interpreters or captioning for my classes. If it's captioned, I can pay attention to things like body language and then glance down and catch up on the conversation real fast. Even with interpreters, there's that time delay and that time delay, it disconnects in some senses, but also give me and also other people I've heard a space to be sensitive to different things.
JON 6: Yeah. Boy, that would be very interesting I think now. I think the other... I don't know. I think it's a skill that everyone can learn and develop the sensitivity to all of the components of an interaction, not just kind of maybe the cognitive or the thinking part of the exchange. I think it's something that... I don't know but, yeah. I think what you're saying is important that you kinda need the space or the time to do it, and it's not something that we're accustomed to allowing, I think, during our interactions.
MEL-J6: Well, if you think about the progress of... And there's also, what also you are using your cognitive effort for. So if you... For me, if I'm using my brain to do things like lip reading, I have lost attention to pay to body language. You get that sort of attention budget back and fall by tape recording and taking out the time response elements.
JON 6: Yeah, I think... Sorry. Go ahead.
MEL-J6: No, that was it.
JON 6: I was gonna say I think there's another piece to the teaching question. We might be way off-topic now, so I'm losing facilitation point as we speak but...
MEL-J6: That's okay.
JON 6: I think there's another very important bit and that is I am now... I'm comfortable in a project-based environment or a studio environment. And at least in certain domains, I am very comfortable with kinda the domain knowledge and skills. 
And actually it frees up, the fact that I kind of know... I guess it's the expertise in a domain has freed up my mind for those other things, like the looking for personal connections or to picking up on what someone says she's interested in or excited about, sensing feeling how my students are experiencing what they are doing.
JON 6: If I were kind of worried about either the setup, the pedagogical approach... This is the first time I'm in project-based learning or something like that or first time I'm doing a design studio, or if I were less familiar with the disciplinary domain or the skill-building area or the competency area that we're working on, I think I'd be devoting a lot more bandwidth to that stuff.
Right or wrong, I don't know. I don't know if that's a good or bad thing to do, but I think that's just kind of how we've been trained. First, you get the domain-specific knowledge, and skill stuff down and then maybe the pedagogy, and then maybe you can worry about the other stuff, although we don't really talk about this, I don't think, as faculty.
And I wonder about flipping that around, flipping that on its head and say, "Well maybe, we should work on the stuff that we haven't been thinking that much about. The interaction, the feeling first, or at least kind of raise that to an equal kind of position, I don't know.
MEL-J6: In the context of, so you're describing almost like a Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs type thing, and when you were describing it, I'm thinking about Debbie's recent Atlantic piece about making, did you get to read that? 
JON 6: No, I haven't seen that.
MEL-J6: So, the short and unfairly summarized version, it is excellent, I think you would enjoy it by the way, is she talked about how makers have historically been valued over non-makers because makers make durable things, and and non-makers don't make durable things, and things sensitivity towards feelings and emotions and connective-ness, it's a non-durable thing; it never turns into a durable thing. Whereas learning about steel can turn into making a durable thing more easily. That last bit was my thought, not Debbie's.
JON 6: It's interest... I don't know, I guess I would say, "Hmm." mostly in response to the choice of words, the word 'durable', it sounds like it's... To me, I don't know what is a durable thing? Can emotions be durable? Can interactions be durable? I would say yes, so I guess I find that word choice an interesting one.
MEL-J6: Yeah, when I was reading that, I felt really Catholic actually because I think about, "Okay, the most durable thing ever is a soul, it's a human soul."
JON 6: Yeah.
MEL-J6: And all the feelings, and all the connective-ness and everything, ultimately it impacts that soul and its ability to love and give and...
JON 6: Yeah.
MEL-J6: And as a Catholic I find that incredibly important, so I go, "Meh, it's gonna be gone in a couple of millennia."
JON 6: Right, geologic time, none of this matters, right? 
MEL-J6: Right.
JON 6: Yeah. Yeah, I think that's true and then like mental... Can a mental model be durable? Well, certainly it can. And the psychologists talk about sort of the crystallization of ways of thinking or knowing, or being in the same way that we talk about physical artifacts as engineers, so yeah, it's an interesting conversation. 
But yeah, I guess back to the earlier thread of, kind of what makes a learning environment one way or another? I think for me... I've said this to faculty and I don't know how many people really get it or internalize it, some do, maybe some don't, but my priority is always getting the feel of the classroom environment right first, because for me if you don't get that right, then you're not gonna be able to do what you could do in the setting. The learning won't be as good as it could be if the...
JON 6: And I guess we use the word 'culture' to describe this to some extent at Olin, but I don't know how many people actually go into a new class, whatever topic they're teaching and say, "My first goal is to try to support or nurture, or create the right feel in the environment." I'm not sure how many people approach course design in that way.
MEL-J6: I don't know, and to attempt to use my facilitation points a little bit. (chuckle) To refer what you were talking about with the Maslow-esque Hierarchy of Needs stuff where some of the stories you've been telling me about UOCD, where it was this go, go, go, new things, new things sort of overwhelming experience where you didn't really know the domain, the pedagogy was this strange new concept, maybe I'm making assumptions on that, but just the things that you described about having domain familiarity, pedagogical comfort, those things do not seem quite as true in your first telling of the, "Oh my God, the UOCD story."
JON 6: Yeah, but I think... So you've heard this story of my basically shutting down as a instructor or a learning facilitator in UOCD, right? Have you heard that story? 
MEL-J6: Which story is that? 
JON 6: This is the one of Mark Somerville and myself sitting in UOCD and basically paralyzed, not knowing what to do or how we should engage. This is pretty early in a semester, maybe two or three weeks in, I don't remember exactly when, but at some point the two of us are sitting in studios, open studio time, and we're sitting there in the... I think it was in the front corner of the room but sort of separated from the rest of the people in the room, all the students were in their teams working. 
We're sitting on our laptops just like cranking through emails and stuff. And at some point we looked at each other, and I think it kind of struck us at about exactly the same time. We kind of look at each other and thought, "This isn't right. What we're doing right now isn't right, but we're not quite sure what to do."
JON 6: But acknowledging that something was off in our interaction or a lack of interaction with students and our engagement in that environment. And from that moment on, we became much more active and engaged members of the UOCD teaching team. 
So, I guess you could pick this apart in different ways, but one diagnosis, one thing that I would suggest is that it was a little too overwhelming from a disciplinary domain and skills perspective. The whole human-center design thing was entirely new to me.
JON 6: The things that we were asking students to do, I didn't quite understand. I hadn't internalized them. They didn't have deep meaning to me. And the studio environment wasn't... I had done project-based courses, but they were more in my domain, mechanical engineering or materials. So the stuff around me was familiar, I could turn to my left and see a microscope and turn to my right and see an Instron mechanical testing machine or something, and there's comfort in that. 
Here we were in this open studio with a bunch of pin up, bulletin boards and sticky notes, and really not much else, asked to do these mysterious... Asked to facilitate student learning in this domain that was new to us, doing activities that were foreign to us, and I think it was just a little bit of cognitive overload paralyzed us. 
I shouldn't speak for Mark, this was my experience. 
So yeah, I guess if you ask, was I actually able to process the other aspects of what was going on, the social interactions and the emotional content in the room? The answer was "No", beyond the fact that I recognized that it wasn't quite right, or wasn't what I wanted.
MEL-J6: To throw one of your frameworks back at you, would that be a moment of a motivation because of low competence and relatedness? 
JON 6: Yeah, I think that's probably. If you gave me the situational motivation scale at that moment and the questions related to intrinsic motivation, "Is it fun, enjoyable, interesting? Does it make me feel good?" No, absolutely not. If you asked me about value, is it valuable or useful? I might have said, "Yes, I think so".
MEL-J6: What may be due to the external regulation of Ben's stuff that you used first, so I guess it must be? 
JON 6: Yeah. I don't think it was internalized by any means. The external, did I feel like I had to do it? That was probably pretty low, 'cause I actually opted into doing UOCD. I was asked and I voluntarily said, "Yeah, I'll be game". Because I'm very crazy that way in that I'll take on anything it seems in the teaching domain. 
And I wanted to learn. I wanted to learn from Ben and from Chrissy, but then the amotivation bits... I think I probably would have had a strong signal to plans like, "There might be a good reason for doing this, but I'm not sure", I'd probably say "Yes". Or "I don't know why I'm in this room right now", yeah maybe. Yeah. That's interesting. And it was definitely the low competence that was driving.
JON 6: Probably a little bit of autonomy too. I didn't have a strong sense of volition and freedom in the early days of the UOCD. I'm not sure I would have wanted it. I was very much in a soaking mode, "Let me learn as much as I can". So I was basically doing what Chris Heape and Ben suggested we do. So the autonomy was low, the competence was negative. 
And the relatedness, I wasn't building connections to students in the room. Probably building some connections to Ben and Chris Heape and others on the teaching team. Lynn was there, Mark was there. Yeah, that's interesting.
MEL-J6: As a side note, it's interesting to hear you talk about relatedness in the sense of interpersonal relations as opposed to "This content connects to other contents I care about". But I guess in hearing you talk, the content you care about isn't disciplinary content; it's human connectivity content.
JON 6: The relatedness aspect of self-determination theory is really about connection to people. And that can come through connection to something outside of the classroom that provides a sense of purpose or value for sure. And it oftentimes does, I think. So, when I think about relatedness I kind of think of it as immediate connection to the people around you in the specific situation, extending all the way up to kind of global or societal types of purpose or meaning connections. And I would say, I probably wasn't feeling much of any of that.
MEL-J6: It's so nice to have this vocabulary, like I threw that at you and you just went with it.
JON 6: But on the relatedness point, the fact that Mark Somerville and I could look at each other and acknowledge as a team that this wasn't what we wanted, didn't feel right and that we needed to do something about it, that actually speaks to a strong sense of relatedness between the two of us, I would say. And that's the thing that got us moving, I think. The sort of, "We're in this together, we gotta figure this out, we're basically failing right now as a team and we need to figure this out" was the thing that prompted us to action.
MEL-J6: I'll need to go back to that literature and understand relatedness more because I think I've been conceiving a bit incorrectly.
JON 6: A lot of people swap the word 'relatedness' out for 'relevance' and they're two different thing, I mean they kinda overlap, but they're not the same.
MEL-J6: Okay. Yeah, this is gonna have to become part of my literature review, which is great because I'm doing the emergent thing. Speaking of which, I hate using facilitating points. It just feels so unnatural to me to steer conversations...
JON 6: I know, right? 
MEL-J6: That's going. Yeah. And some people want that steering, they totally do, and I do that, but that's what the conversation wants in that moment, so that's more okay. 
Anyway, I would like to ask you to go to the last page of the plan, and then if we have time we can go back up to the first page, but I wanted to show you the preliminary results I'm getting from out of these hours and hours of conversations with you and the other five faculty members, and see what you make of it. 
I want to show these back to... Rob has seen these, Lynn has seen these, the Berea faculty will at some point, hopefully, this month or the next see the... To see if they make sense, if they pass the sniff test of, "Yeah, I can see this would be plausible result" or, "Oh my God, I have no idea how you would get this in talking with us."
JON 6: Okay. I'm looking at it now.
MEL-J6: Okay. I would say one thing which is that number three and four seem to be the primary results and the other ones are secondary results, just things that support three and four, and with that I will be quiet and let you read and...
JON 6: Okay. (pause) Hmm, that's interesting. (pause)
JON 6: I'm responding with "Hmm, it's interesting" to the... Oh, the stuff that just disappeared. Wait, what's going on? 
MEL-J6: I'm trying to add a little bit of context to number three.
JON 6: Oh, I get you.
MEL-J6: Sometimes I only have these realizations during the conversation regardless of how much I prep beforehand.
JON 6: Yeah. That's kinda cool from a process perspective.
MEL-J6: Yep. And so when I print the plans in my appendix for my dissertation, there'll be notes like "Hey, this plan's changed during the course of our conversation". Yeah. You can't see that. It's paper.
JON 6: Co-construction... Yeah. This is really interesting here.
MEL-J6: Which row are you? Oh the last one, number five. Yeah.
JON 6: Yeah. I think it's interesting for different reasons. One is what you mentioned here, the question of where does the co-construction occur, but I also think... I mean like the bigger idea of co-construction of interpersonal, I would say personal and interpersonal structures during an activity that is fundamentally framed as a "we're building the curriculum" is kind of an interesting idea. Do you know what I mean?
Like if faculty entered curricula A, what is always called 'curriculum reform' or 'curriculum redesign' or 'program design' or 'course design', not calling it that but calling it... This will be hilarious, "What are you doing?" "Oh we're working on a combination of personal... " And actually Linda Vanasupa who does this down at Cal Poly, we're doing personal design, interpersonal design and curriculum design as part of our effort right now. Like that would totally freak most people out, but that's actually what happens, I think. Does that makes sense? 
MEL-J6: Exactly what happens, but we don't realize it or exactly what happens and we know that's why we're doing it, but we don't talk about it? 
JON 6: Cool. Well, okay. I say it's exactly what happens, I say that's exactly what happens for me, and I now realize it. I don't think I realized it early on that that's what was happening, I thought I was designing courses. I didn't realize that I was designing relationships with other people, faculty and students, and I didn't realize that I was developing myself, my identity, my skills, my mental models. I certainly realize it now and I go into every new effort with all this stuff on my radar, but it's not framed that way still.
JON 6: "Jon, what are you doing this summer?" "I'm designing a new course," and then later you get to the, "Oh, by the way, I'm also interacting with these two faculty members and this is how our thinking is changing and blah, blah, blah," and "These are the new skills that I need to pick up at some point, or I can't quite figure out how I myself think about this thing so I need to work on my own mental models". That kind of stuff comes later if you're comfortable talking about it with the group your working with or surrounded by. But it's not the initial framing.
MEL-J6: So, I'll throw two things back to you on that. I've actually heard you and Lynn and Rob and the other collaboratory folks explicitly talk about these sorts of things, so two instances, one is using 'good to great' for the collaboratory workshop, the summer institute as reading and it has that section about 'get the right people on the bus', and I think you might have brought this up in one of your interviews too, that it's important to get the right people on the bus.
JON 6: Yep, yeah.
MEL-J6: That's a way of saying that, and then also we'll say things to each other, like you and I even in this conversation, and I think in last week's conversation, say things like, "We should do something together sometime."
JON 6: Yeah, that's the building interpersonal structures or what ever the word is there.
MEL-J6: And it's clear from that statement that the important thing is, "Hey, I wanna do something with you, I kinda don't care what the something is, but I want it to be to you."
JON 6: But I think there is another... Yeah, I think that's true and I think that is becoming, at least in the groups that I work with. It's something that we introduce in workshop settings or consulting settings, that the idea of 'get the right people on the bus'. 
I'm not sure that fully captures though what I'm thinking right now. I think there's... The phrase, 'get the right people on the bus', in some ways implies that they are already the right people. I guess what I'm suggesting is that those people are gonna change as a result of this process. So, I'm mean I don't know, like how do you handle this? Get what you imagine could someday be the right people on the bus? I don't know. Do you know what I'm saying? 
MEL-J6: Yeah.
JON 6: It's not already the right people. They are in some regard, but they're gonna become different people and you hope that they are still right, I guess? I don't know. Does that make sense? 
MEL-J6: Yeah, and it's difficult to talk about this with language, because we freeze so many things in time so that we can refer to them. And you were talking about way back in your first couple of interviews about... Actually, this might be a good occasion to look really quickly at Page four of the plan because actually what it's about.
JON 6: Page four.
MEL-J6: The second part of it.
MEL-J6: I'm highlighting...
JON 6: Oh, gotcha. Okay.
MEL-J6: Do you remember us having that conversation about freezing the curriculum for export? 
JON 6: Yeah.
MEL-J6: Yeah, how do you export something that's still evolving? How do you create language for things that will keep shifting? 
JON 6: This thing is so beautiful, it becomes harder to... I don't think I've seen this from Lynn. Is this the first time I'm reading this? 
MEL-J6: This is the first time you're reading this. This was yesterday. This entire page is Lynn talking yesterday or Lynn typing yesterday, I guess. And she was talking about developing a language, needing to develop it, solidify it for an external audience as opposed to being able to talk about bottle rockets and...
JON 6: Yeah. Yeah. So what are you freezing and... (chuckle) What does it mean to be frozen? Yeah, it's an interesting question like how do you... 
I actually proposed to do this. I proposed to NSF, Rob and I did, years ago with a group at CalPoly. We proposed to develop, kind of what we have ended up developing but we called it a 'flexible framework for integrated course design' and when we first proposed this we had no idea what that meant or what it might look like, and we struggled enormously, and it seems like continually with this idea of what in the world... How do you freeze this thing that never looks the same and continues to evolve? What are the so called 'frozen bits' of it?
And we ended up, we struggled with that for years, I think, and then once you create something and put it on paper, like you make a new framework or you make a tool, and you deploy it in a few workshops and it seems to be successful like Lynn is saying, it's so freaking hard to then ditch that for something else, or modify it, or change it. So yeah, it's interesting.
MEL-J6: But even specific words we use, and this is maybe what's gonna happen to you, post structuralism and semiotics and signifies and signifiers and stuff. Whoo! Like intrinsic motivation, that's a very specific term that means a very specific thing, it comes from a particular body of literature, but if you look at the earlier publication versus the later ones, the phrase 'intrinsic motivation' doesn't quite mean the same thing because the researchers are developing their own thoughts on this. It shifts and changes and it showed me much when I was starting to do lit reviews, it was like, "Oh, my God. Can you not decide on what your word means?"
JON 6: Yeah, yeah and so the response of most researchers is to increase, to amp up the complexity. Like, "Okay, so it's not just intrinsic motivation or because of all these different definitions we need more, we need more structure, we need more framing." And so, they build out these elaborate frameworks that then are like super well-defined in little bitty pieces, which then become even scarier to look at or let alone touch. You don't wanna mess with this stuff.
MEL-J6: Right.
JON 6: Yeah, it's interesting. Yeah. Even what I just did earlier, sort of saying, "Well, relevance is defined as blah, blah, blah. And you can think of it this way." I mean, that is definitely a reflection of sort of reading and buying into the frameworks that are in the literature, so yeah.
MEL-J6: That's why we have timestamp, too. I mean like I can say, "Oh, I'm using the... Like cognitive apprenticeship is a framework that I use a lot, but it's changed significantly over time as has the communities who practice." And so, I'll explicitly say things like, "I'm using a definition from this 1992 paper by this person." There are different variants.
JON 6: Yeah.
MEL-J6: It's kind of what I tried to do with this entire research process also with... It's not just "Jon Third", it's "Jon's third interview said this about Rob's second interview, which he quoted in his first interview".
JON 6: Yeah, interesting. I mean, I'm just thinking about the tension that not freezing something creates, especially in the academic world where it's all about being that person who gets that framework into that particular journal at that particular time, and that everyone else in the world kinda picks up and runs with. Yeah, so what does it look like if it's not that? 
MEL-J6: I don't know. It's one of the greatest challenges of doing this dissertation because one of my gigantic points is exactly what you said, "What does that look like?" Because a lot of faculty knowing what's happening and the story of, "Oh, my gosh, what is design? Let's come up with this. Woo!" And then even with what we're doing now of "Let's tell a story. Except it's not really a story, it's an interwoven view of conversations that root back upon themselves. 
And this is what a faculty person developing looks like. It's a thing in motion. It's a thing in constant process.
JON 6: Right.
MEL-J6: But for promotion internally, we have to freeze it and say, "Hello, Mr. Provost, pass me."
JON 6: "My linear progression, yeah, on this performance axis looks like this". And you have to pretend that that's real. Yeah, it's frustrating. (chuckle)
MEL-J6: It's frustrating for me although I know it's also a good discipline exercise to do this at least once.
JON 6: Sure. Sure.
MEL-J6: To be doing a project that's all about that and then also be forced to freeze and and submit a book basically on it and say, "Oop, this is done."
JON 6: Yeah. Hmm, interesting.
MEL-J6: I'm talking too much again with myself for now. So the result? 
JON 6: Oh, yeah. No, I mean, you asked if it passes the sniff test. I don't know if I'm the right person to be sniffing, but it seems to reflect the interesting stuff that has emerged, at least for me, in our conversation. I know you said that three and four were the big ones. I found these two... Well, this one in particular struck me as really interesting.
MEL-J6: 4B? 
JON 6: 4B.
MEL-J6: Yeah, faculty down to Mr. Fields, yeah.
JON 6: Yeah, but the way you wrote these recipients of students who've been through someone else, yeah... Actually, I found it interesting just in and of itself, but I also find it interesting as kind of a... I don't know. I think I'm thinking about something slightly different than this exactly and it is... 
We're not just receiving... So faculty are not just recipients of students who've been through someone else's curriculum. But faculty are kind of... And this... I don't know... I'm trying... This is hard. This is actually hard to put into words.
MEL-J6: That's okay.
JON 6: So a few of us, Rob and Mark and I, have this conversation on occasion, something along in the domain of "What's it like for a new faculty to come to Olin and how do we best support them?" We talk about kind of the ramp up at Olin and how hard that must be for people who are coming from certain backgrounds, and what we might do to, I guess, to be supportive and to facilitate the growth of this entire community. 
And I think, for me, one of the things that I struggle so much with is that when new people come to Olin or when... You can think of this as workshop recipients too. The workshop recipients are hearing from me something that, I guess, they're kind of downstream. They're hearing all the stuff that is like 10 or 14 years in the making. 
I don't know. I guess, the question of sort of, "Is it fair?" Is oftentimes in my mind. Like is it fair for me to be standing up in front of a group of 100 people from Brazilian institutions or from all over the world. Or to go to Purdue and talk to 40 something people, faculty, and to throw this stuff at them that, for me, is still developing and emerging.
JON 6: And even the stuff that they're seeing at this moment in time was many, many years in the making. And so, I don't know, I struggle a lot with this aspect of... If we just consider a new faculty at Olin, as soon as they arrive, they're getting all this stuff. They're like the downstream recipients of mental models and understandings, and ways of being and thinking and doing that might not... I don't know. I don't know, if 'fairness' is the right word. I don't know, there's something that feels a little challenging with that scenario. 
And then, they get handed bits of the curriculum that are... That have been, I don't know if I'd say 'optimized', but they've been under development for a decade or more. And they're at a state now that is completely different than how they started, and those people entering those spaces don't get the advantage of being part of that development. So I don't know, I struggle with this. I'm not sure if this is at all relevant or making sense at all but...
MEL-J6: It does make sense.
JON 6: It's kinda connecting the idea of downstream recipients. If we're talking about the created thing, if you assume... If we take what we were talking about a minute ago, that the curriculum is not just a curriculum. Curriculum structures are interwoven with interpersonal structures and with personal structures, and if you try to hand off just the curricular piece of that without... That's been developed to a certain point, without the other stuff, to someone who is coming at it from a very different background, that's potentially an opportunity for enormous and very rapid growth, or potentially an opportunity for just this disastrous collapse. So I wonder if there's something to explore here.
MEL-J6: 15 years ago when you were a new faculty member at Olin, you were also stepping into... I don't even know if you could say stepping into it, these boundaries are kind of arbitrary. But it's not like the world started then, there's still all this history, there's all this framework, there's all this... Everybody can remember their own history. Though Olin itself may not have had a culture, but everybody had a culture, and the discipline has a culture, and you can't be ahistorical.
JON 6: Right, yeah.
MEL-J6: I'm sure Rob would have more to say about that but...
JON 6: No, I guess that's true. I guess everyone enters things at a certain point from their own perspective and from the thing's perspective. So no, that's... That's, yeah.
MEL-J6: But if I was gonna really oversimplify what I heard you saying it's, "New people that come to Olin are stepping into a place that has a culture that they don't know yet". But I don't know if that's... That seems to miss something of what you said, but I'm not sure what it misses.
JON 6: I guess I'm kind of asking, maybe I'm asking the question of, to what extent can people learn culture or... I don't know, what am I asking? It's... Yeah, I like what you're saying though. This is actually very helpful. You go to a new place, you have to somehow learn and figure out who you are in that new setting, what the new setting is, what the values and norms, and goals of that environment are. Everyone has to do this all the time. 
I think... You know what? I think I'm looking for an explanation for why... I might be looking for an explanation for why, when presented with what we've done here at Olin, or if you took examples from other schools...
JON 6: If you take something that is considered innovative or progressive, or different or non-traditional. When presented with that, there are lots of different responses, and I think I'm kind of trying to figure out why is sometimes the response one of, "No, I can't. I can't do that, I can't handle that, I'm not going to do that". And sometimes the response is, "Oh, that's kind of interesting, let me learn more". And sometimes the response is, "Oh yeah, you're speaking my language. I'm already there, I'm with you, and let's continue to grow together".
JON 6: So I'm kinda, I guess I'm trying to map... I'm trying to make the connection between the interpersonal and the personal and the curricular development, historical timeline. It's like if that's the river and they have these other streams flowing into it which are faculty, which have their own kind of background and upstream stuff, when do you get alignment, quick alignment that leads to even bigger and better things and more growth for everyone? When do you get kind of a moderate or in-between response that leads to some good stuff, but maybe over a longer time and some struggles along the way? And when do you get to the... When do you have the complete mismatch? I guess I'm trying to figure out change process right now but... (chuckle)
MEL-J6: You are. And I'm laughing also because Rob and then Lynn's description of Jon... Jon goes underneath the surface of things and tries to make stuff bigger and step back, step back.
JON 6: Yeah.
MEL-J6: You are totally doing that right now, it's awesome.
JON 6: Yeah. I'm working through a framework. Okay, so yeah, I'll shut up now.
MEL-J6: No, this was fantastic, but I'm also looking at the time, and I can keep on going, but I know you also have a busy schedule.
JON 6: Yeah, I think I need to go. Actually I gotta grab some lunch, I got another meeting coming up in a few minutes, so...
MEL-J6: Okay.
JON 6: And I'm tired, because now my mind is going wild, so okay. So thanks for that, but thanks, and no thanks.
MEL-J6: You're welcome, and I'm sorry. (chuckle) Well, you and I know that boundaries and conversations are kind of arbitrary, and we're gonna keep on talking about this sort of stuff for however many years. So, anything else that we need to do to wrap up the last transcript or last thoughts you wanna say? 
JON 6: I just wanna say thanks, Mel. This is, it's been... There were certainly days when I would look at the 'Skype call with Mel' on my calendar and think, "Oh, I'm not sure if I'm in the mindset to do that or maybe I should reschedule". But it's been pretty awesome start to finish, so thanks.
MEL-J6: Thank you. Okay. Good luck with the rest of your day, Jon. I'll be on campus next Thursday, so if I get to wave by, hopefully I'll see you then.
JON 6: Alright, yeah, it would be nice to hang out a little bit.
MEL-J6: Okay.
MEL-J6: Alright. Take care.
JON 6: Alright, see you.
MEL-J6: Bye-bye.
JON 6: Bye.
