What were main issues in interview [in terms of process]?

Transcription speed is sometimes an issue, but not this time! Because of the rate Jon speaks at (slower, with lots of pauses) I was able to clean up the transcript behind Beth, meaning I had all of 5 minutes of editing to do before it was all clean.

Beth's connection to the Google Doc dropped in the middle of the editing conversation, leaving a chunk untranscribed. This happens rarely, and for only a short time. In these cases, and if it's a remote interview, I just frantically type as much as I can myself. (If it's an in-person interview, I can't start typing without disrupting the interview.) Originally I'd planned on having the option of audio-recording as a backup, but in practice I haven't done that (yet -- should I start?) It doesn't allow us to do the grounded indigenous coding afterwards, but it would let me recover dropped bits. I don't think the tradeoff is worth it yet; a few sentences missed is not worth the trouble of setting up audio recording and looping back through (and also of the anxiety subjects may have if they're being audiorecorded).

Summarize the information you got [originally: or failed to get on each target question].

Jon introduced himself as one of the original co-creators of Olin (as an early faculty member) and described the notion of "design" at Olin as going through a constantly expanding process from engineering design to user-centered design and (now) into a consideration of the broader environmental, etc. factors beyond the immediate users. He talked about teaching UOCD as a key experience, and Ben as a key person.

Anything else interesting, salient, illuminating, or important in this interview [content]

UOCD and Ben Linder have come up as huge tipping points for all three Olin narrators. When I start advertising the public transcripts (and their shorter remixes) to Olin people, I may want to consider specifically trying to reach Ben, other early UOCD faculty, Chris Heape, and the first few classes who took UOCD.

Jon is the first Olin narrator to talk about the notion of "design" as still evolving -- and doesn't mention Rob and Lynn as being people he's had that conversation with. Fascinating.

I'm surprised Jon didn't really talk about "Stuff of History" when that experience (so closely intertwined with Rob) was so central to Rob's narrative. Maybe it's because "Stuff" is the most design-y course Rob has taught, whereas Jon has had many other experiences.

I'm amused -- and said as much in the storytelling session -- that the predictions faculty have of each other have been "oh, X would know better than I would" -- and then X, when telling their story, says the first professor would know more.

Jon said the opposite of Lynn in terms of “breathing time” -- the early days had tons of it, and now not so much.

What new (or remaining) target questions do you have in considering the next interview?

I'd like to dig back into a few things with Jon on his second round. One is his identity as a creator, and how important it is for him to introduce himself as such -- is this any sort of defense reaction, has he ever been assumed to not be an original faculty member, perhaps because of his young age?

I also want to look again at the expanding notion of "design" for Jon, and get into a few specific stories of the early days of UOCD, and perhaps the early days of the faculty reflecting on UOCD and getting the shared language to a point where they could teach it. I'd like to ask him when formal curriculum documents started to state the things he now believes to be widespread (at Olin) sentiments on user-centered design -- that formalizing process, that story arc of one "expansion" of the word "design." If we can parallel that to any stories of the current expansion into sustainable design, great.

When I reach Rob and Lynn, I'd like to bring to them Jon's still-expanding notion of design and see how they respond to that. I also want to point out that Jon said the opposite of Lynn in terms of “breathing time” -- the early days had tons of it, and now not so much -- and see what all three have to say to that.

I'd like to bring Rob's stories of "Stuff" back to Jon and probe whether that class was significant for his notion of design at Olin in any way; he did mention the reflective sessions afterwards, but that was it so far.

Affective - how’d it feel?

Satisfying. I want to dig deeper into the transcripts -- I feel like I'm keeping up with the interviews all right, but because I'm also writing my prelim, there's so much depth I sense inside the stories that I haven't reached yet.
