MEL-L6: ----------- TRANSCRIPT START -------------
MEL-L6: Once again, we have a link: [google docs link]
LYNN 6: <rearranging desktop>
MEL-L6: This is the last round, so it's shorter in order to give us space to talk about any loose threads we may want to wrap. And the last page of the document are my preliminary results, since Rob and Jon have been interested in seeing them too.
LYNN 6: ok.  reading now
MEL-L6: (I see you in the document)
LYNN 6: Just got to the end of the first paragraph of Jon.
LYNN 6: I had an interesting experience recently when some folks from Penn State med school visited us.  They are looking to do some serious program (re-)invention, and they wanted to know about partner year.
LYNN 6: They asked a lot of detailed questions, and so I had to reconstruct.
LYNN 6: One of the things that I had forgotten was the structure of the year.
LYNN 6: We had four modules during which we piloted courses (e.g., What is I?, ModCon-precursor, etc.) and did curriculum development (AHS, Chemistry, Competencies, ...)
LYNN 6: But each module was only 5 weeks, and the year was 30+
LYNN 6: I had basically forgotten that we had a 4-week module mid-semester each semester in which the students were not involved with the faculty.
LYNN 6: The first semester, they did the Rube Goldberg machine (Guinness record attempt)
LYNN 6: The second semester, they went to France (Away pilot)
MEL-L6: (since you are a cognitive scientist, I'll mention that your use of the word "reconstruct" has me thinking about how retrieval attempts alter the structure of memories, etc. -- but am nodding and "listening")
LYNN 6: Both of those were long periods in which we were supposed to be reflecting and planning.
LYNN 6: I don't really remember what those felt like, but they must have been a bit of the breath that you are asking about here, and that Jon is saying might not have happened much.
MEL-L6: Huh, I'd never thought about what the faculty did during that time. I had assumed y'all were also somehow in on the Rube Goldberg / France thing, but "we ran into Gill in the Italian laundromat!" stories do seem to... indicate... you weren't.
LYNN 6: I do kind-of remember when the students were in France that it was very quiet.
LYNN 6: A few faculty members went to France.  Joanne, and maybe the other Pratts, and definitely the Kerns(es).
LYNN 6: And the Rube Goldberg thing was mostly done without us, with just minor consultations etc., because we were really supposed to be regrouping.
LYNN 6: (I liked what you said about re-construction above, btw)
MEL-L6: Well, there's also ramp-down, and recover-from-adrenaline-crash, and ramp-back-up-because-students-are-coming-back... that can easily take up most of a 4-week module -- but I'm intrigued at this memory space I've never heard or thought about before.
MEL-L6: The mysterious 4 weeks of "faculty must have reflected, right? ....right?"
LYNN 6: Yeah....I'd have to dredge up notes or something to see what really happened, but I do think there was something a lot closer to downtime or at least breathing room than I tend to remember.
LYNN 6: I guess the other thing I would say is that I do remember a lot of tension, and not the productive kind, in the partner year.
LYNN 6: I'm sure there was plenty that was productive as well.
MEL-L6: No Olin faculty member has ever mentioned this part of Partner Year to me before, btw. I don't think it's because people are hiding anything, but... wild speculation, maybe that section of the year is just less salient in people's minds. There aren't exciting Things that Happened for the memories to grab onto.
MEL-L6: Well, it's hard to tell what sort of tension is productive/unproductive... kinda depends on your timescale, and also what is seen as "productive."
LYNN 6: Yes, that's right.  I think the mid-semester non-modules were really not the point, but they did in fact create some space.  Certainly that's when the planning for the second and fourth regular modules happened.
MEL-L6: (or maybe it's "well, I spent 2 of those 4 weeks sleeping from sheer exhaustion and another week catching up with my family who I hadn't seen in ages at that point." Or somewhere in between.)
MEL-L6: chuckles. Just-in-time curriculum planning.
LYNN 6: No, I don't think that we were that exhausted.  I don't remember being that exhausted until about the third year of the actual curriculum.
MEL-L6: ...wow.
LYNN 6: Actually, not just just-in-time.  Partly intentional.  Do a module.  Reflect and replan.  Do another module.  Lather, rinse, repeat.
LYNN 6: A lot of the modules built on things that had happened earlier.
LYNN 6: Some were literally continuations -- like "what should AHS look like at Olin?" which occupied space in two or three, I think -- and others were next iterations of trying an approach.
LYNN 6: There were more activities suggested in each module than we could actually hold (because each student could only do so many things, and there were only 30 of them :) ), so some things were carried over -- we'll do that next module -- but most activities were planned for what we needed to figure out at that time in the year.
MEL-L6: and things were optimized for "let's figure out curriculum stuff"
MEL-L6: (as opposed to "current student learning"?)
LYNN 6: Oh, absolutely.
MEL-L6: That's a luxury.
MEL-L6: That sounds like an amazing, amazing luxury.
LYNN 6: The understanding was that these very students would be part of our first class, so there would be plenty of time for them to learn stuff.
LYNN 6: Anything they learned during partner year was a bonus.
MEL-L6: I mean, I'm sure they learned stuff Partner year too, but it's not as if... exactly, bonus.
LYNN 6: Yes, a huge luxury.
MEL-L6: "Oh no, I didn't learn calculus properly. I can never take it again! It is lost foreverrrrr!"
LYNN 6: We had a year to prototype.  In retrospect, the module structure was a great idea, because it allowed for rapid iteration.
LYNN 6: :) calculus
MEL-L6: (Which really isn't a true statement -- we can always go back and learn things again, etc! But it feels so real, sometimes, when you're a student.)
LYNN 6: So on the thing I just highlighted ("And a lot of it frankly...."):  I am in complete agreement with the sentiment that we didn't really understand a lot of what we did until later.
LYNN 6: For me, there was a transformative moment (well, period) when I came back from sabbatical.  Jon and Mark had been out the same year, and we'd each been trying to help another institution think about curricular change, and we'd each learned a ton.
MEL-L6: ...oh, right! Your sabbaticals were simultaneous, and you were out at Harvard, and Jon at Cal Poly, and Mark at... I don't remember. But yes, that does sound like it would be a Big Moment.
LYNN 6: We went to a workshop together (along with a few others from Olin) and it gave us an opportunity to think a lot about how change happens in engineering education, and we sort-of thought, hey, we have thoughts in this arena.
LYNN 6: [Mark at TU Delft]
MEL-L6: The workshop was during the sabbatical? After?
MEL-L6: Ah, thanks. I thought it was somewhere that was not in America.
LYNN 6: The workshop was after we'd come back, maybe back almost a year.
MEL-L6: Oh, wow. Okay, so a while.
LYNN 6: We invited some of our friends from the area to come to Olin for a most-of-a-day workshop in which we explored ideas about curricular change.
LYNN 6: It was a precursor to the summer institute; the next year we actually ran the summer institute.
MEL-L6: So you (Jon, Mark, Lynn) went to a workshop, which gave you time to think and realize you had thoughts about curricular change, and then you ran a prototype-workshop with friends, and then the summer institute happened -- 3 separate events?
LYNN 6: maybe the same summer that we went to that workshop, and that we ran our own, Mark and I also went to a workshop at Harvard Med (actually Harvard-Macy Institute, run by Liz Armstrong and Clay Christensen) that was a week-long program, summer institute-y, with a huge amount of meta and reflection.
LYNN 6: Fabulous workshop.  Also very inspiring.
LYNN 6: Now I am confused by chronology and want to double check.
MEL-L6: Whoa that's fast turnaround. Between going to someone else's workshop and coming up with your own workshop prototype. (This is said with a "whoa that is cool" tone of voice.)
MEL grins at Lynn checking chronology. I'd say "oh, you don't have to do that," but I'm guessing you will anyway.
LYNN 6: Yeah, I did, and I even remembered right.
LYNN 6: Sabbaticals were '07-08
LYNN 6: The other workshops were spread over summer '09
MEL-L6: (I remember this, because I graduated in '07 and saw you during your sabbatical)
MEL-L6: wow, that's a lot of workshops in a summer. i'm a little jealous :)
LYNN 6: Ours was really just 3/4 day, and it was much more interactive and not much presentation; the premise was that everyone in the room had stuff to contribute, so we were really just facilitating, not teachign.
LYNN 6: The result was a lot of reflection.
LYNN 6: I am sure that sabbatical had primed us for it.
MEL-L6: how do you mean?
MEL-L6: (that sabbatical had primed you for reflection)
LYNN 6: When I said that, I meant having time.  Sabbatical is (when done right) a HUGE opportunity to breathe and think.Also trying to help our respective host institutions had of course gotten us to think a lot of
LYNN 6: Also trying to help our respective host institutions had of course gotten us to think a lot about what we had actually been doing at Olin (and how and why) and what we had learned.
LYNN 6: Jon probably started doing serious engineering ed research around this period (or maybe inspired by this thinking; I don't recall when the scholarship aspect started).
MEL-L6: huh. i'm wondering if what you're saying now will make me re-evalaute one of my "results" -- but you'll see that towards the end
LYNN 6: And Mark and I were doing some of that, and also a lot of reading and thinking about institutional change, and educational practice, and that sort of thing.
LYNN 6: We started to name what we had done and learned.
LYNN 6: Again, at the time I'm not sure we named the naming, but we named the practices, a bit.
MEL-L6: You hadn't needed language for it before?
LYNN 6: Developing what has become our set of frameworks for thinking about students, engagement, curricular change, institutional change, ... Of course they have evolved enormously over the past 6 years, but it really started being articulated in that summer of '09.
LYNN 6: We hadn't had time to develop a language.  We just did it.  It was in talking with others, outside Olin, that we needed to name it.
MEL-L6: But there were so many of you collaborating within Olin, didn't you need an internal language?
LYNN 6: This is true (from Jon):  But I do think the seeds for that reflection were planted all along and some of those were starting to grow already.
LYNN 6: This is really interesting:  And then the identity thing is something that I started struggling with is, personally very early at Olin. I didn't know why I was hired. I didn't know what I could contribute, and then when we started actually implementing project-based learning or designed studio-based learning, I quickly realized that I wasn't equipped in too many ways to do that, that I had to actually shift identity, shift skills along with it.
MEL-L6: also, this is reminding me of something Jon said very early on -- about how starting to explain Olin to others also served as a forcing function that "freezed" aspects of Olin (UOCD, I think) from changing. (I'm now trying to pull up that section of his transcript in the background.)
MEL-L6: ah, multithreaded discussions.
LYNN 6: Within Olin, we could speak in specifics.  We didn't need to recognize that we were "supporting intrinsic motivation" or "designing for student engagement".  We just said "do-learn" and "student-centered" and "WODTOD" :)
MEL-L6: Ah! Okay.
LYNN 6: But also "bottle rocket" and "I think that second week drags a bit" and "maybe they need more scaffolding to understand what we are asking them to do"
MEL-L6: You had signs/signifiers/reference points that people could understand, because you shared a context.
LYNN 6: Of course we had some language.  But it was probably more specific, and not extracting lessons and morals and frameworks.
LYNN 6: Oh, yeah, we also wrote some important grant proposals.
LYNN 6: Important not because they were funded, but because they forced us to say what we were about.
MEL-L6: "scaffolding" seems kinda frameworkey. but maybe not in the "and we have connected this to broader outside literature!" way.
MEL-L6: grant proposals - during the early days, you mean?
LYNN 6: Famously, we wrote a major NSF proposal (unfunded) in about a week in Jan 2010.
LYNN 6: Yeah, "scaffolding" is probably a later piece of language.  Probably in the early days we would have said "support".
MEL-L6: (I mean, when I say "scaffolding" I know that I'm referring to a massive ream of cognitive apprenticeship literature where that word has a precise meaning, but... I'm having this realization as I type, that this may not be how everyone at Olin used it early on.)
MEL-L6: Hm. Okay, so... now musing about language and how it creates structures for our thoughts, and... anyway, background Mel-thought processes continue while you keep on talking about this NSF grant...
LYNN 6: I am about to send you two pictures that are Mark Somerville's intellectual property, so you would need his permission to use.  Is it OK to insert them here?
LYNN 6: [Going back to Jon's identity struggle while waiting for Mel to say whether I can continue the grant proposals/Mark's figures.]
MEL-L6: go go go!
MEL-L6: I'll ask Mark about the pictures.
LYNN 6: Jon is the only one of the second year faculty whom I did not meet until he arrived on campus.  He interviewed at Olin on a day when I was out of town.
MEL-L6: I also found the Jon comment about "freezing" and am whittling it down to something copy-pasteable.
LYNN 6: So I don't think I had as clear a sense of who he was before coming to Olin.
LYNN 6: I definitely *think* of him as someone at the heart of project-based learning and serious student engagement, even back before he was Jon of Rob-and-Jon and IM-Jon.
LYNN 6: It's interesting to hear that he feels he was struggling with identity and how he could contribute.
MEL-L6: Well, Rob and Jon were... young.
MEL-L6: Jon and Alex pointed out to me last summer that Alex Dillon is now Jon's age when Jon first arrived at Olin.
LYNN 6: I know he felt that UOCD/studio pedagogy was a stretch.  I just don't remember seeing that so much as seeing how good he was at it.  (Possibly confounding different eras.  Just reflecting what I remember.)
MEL-L6: Which feels weird to everyone. Jon, Alex, and me hearing them talk about that.
LYNN 6: I totally remember young Rob.  His office was adjacent to mine in the Mods, and we talked A TON.
LYNN 6: I didn't run into Jon as much, and we didn't really collaborate directly on too much (while Rob and I did a LOT together in the early days), so I have fewer memories of young Jon.
LYNN 6: Switching back to the grants.  Here are two figures from that Jan 2010 proposal, which was called "Bridging the Gap".
  
  
MEL-L6: (I found Jon's quote about the freezing, and I stuck it in the 2nd page of the prompt, which we haven't even gotten to yet)
LYNN 6: You can see Jon's thinking in the "student control/instructor control" axis
LYNN 6: The proposal was all about faculty development.
LYNN 6: It was a 25-page (or thereabouts) articulation of what we believed we had to offer at the time.
MEL-L6: what's the vertical axis?
LYNN 6: There was another proposal, much larger (and multi-institutional), about a year later.
MEL-L6: the horizontal axis is what to learn -- the vertical is... how to learn?
MEL-L6: (the label is cut off)
LYNN 6: I think you are correct.
LYNN 6: Putting these together was about redefining ourselves, making it clear to ourselves that we could talk about what we had done.
MEL-L6: Ok. It does seem logical. I can ask Mark when I ask his permission too, but it's not a showstopper.
MEL-L6: nods 
LYNN 6: So to me, while we were crazy busy inventing, I don't really remember sitting back and saying "wow, what we did!"
LYNN 6: but then when we went on sabbaticals and got to catch our breath and try to help others think about their similar problems, we realized that we had some insights
LYNN 6: and coming back, talking about our experiences, and going to those workshops, we began to be able to articulate that in a way that others could understand and learn from and contribute to.
MEL-L6: I'll also note, since I don't have a good gauge of your time/energy-level, that we have 3 prompts in total today, and then a page of results -- in case that helps us pace ourselves. (This is not a secret "we should move on" prod, btw, though there's not a good way for me to keep it from feeling like one.)
LYNN 6: That's when (in Lynn's crazy reconstruction of the whole thing) the reflection really happened.
MEL-L6: aha :)
LYNN 6: I'm up to Remebered Rob, and I do want to move, because I want to read all the good stuff you put here :)
MEL-L6: (we can, of course, totally skip prompts, and you can always read them anytime even if we don't talk about them -- but I think you'll like 'em.) (I am done with the pacing metacommentary now)
MEL-L6: (for now)
MEL-L6: ok!
LYNN 6: Yeah.  Rob at the bottom of the page says what it took me all this transcript to not quite express.  As usual :)
MEL-L6: The "Remembered Rob" stuff is from the end of last month, btw. And the "Paraphrased-Jon" stuff is from early, early, early in the process -- it's from his 2nd interview.
LYNN 6: Just read the Rob bit on outreach.  Nice expression of a problem we're wrestling with now, and I won't really comment on it much beyond that (though I am sure it is a conversation that will continue outside and beyond this dissertation).
MEL-L6: Yup.
LYNN 6: Not sure I agree with this (from Jon):  Interfacing with outside people, helping them develop ideas, spending time on packaging and communicating, translating our stuff, because it involves our time, is directly balancing the amount of innovation we are able to do within Olin.
LYNN 6: Only because I think that, in interfacing with others, I'm often pulling in things that eventually influence what i do internally.
LYNN 6: Also, I'm learning from the (Olin) colleagues I'm working with.
LYNN 6: Engineering for Humanity benefitted enormously from both stuff I saw/heard elsewhere and stuff I learned through pulling together the summer institute and learning from Olin folks there.
LYNN 6: It's the most rationally designed course I have ever been involved with.
MEL-L6: It's interesting to think about Jon's (very early) thoughts on that, right next to what you're saying right now, and next to what Rob said about the Collaboratory in the first prompt (where the Collaboratory stuff is what prompts the "I thought I knew you, but now I really know you" moments.)
MEL-L6: I'm... trying very hard to not spew Mel-thoughts all over this transcript and ask leading questions and interject my opinions and so forth, but it's hilariously impossible for me to do that, leading to phrases like "it's interesting..." :)
MEL-L6: I am intrigued by your statement of "it's the most rationally designed course I have ever been involved with," but perhaps that is a rabbit hole / shiny distraction that should not be chased too far. (Or maybe not! Look, Mel-brain vibrating with excitement!)
LYNN 6: Short version of E4H story:  We knew what we wanted to accomplish with the class, and we made some explicit tradeoffs to support that.  Hence, the project that is an extremely simple one-of for a particular individual, allowing design to go all the way from need-finding to product delivery in a single semester.
LYNN 6: You could easily imagine turning knobs differently, focusing on just part of the process in greater (and more meaningful) dept.
LYNN 6: depth.
LYNN 6: There's more, but that's the gist.  And I wouldn't have been able to do that in 2000 (or 2002)
MEL-L6: Ooh, so less of the "Nth worst Olin education ever" effect (of early classes learning a lot, but in a somewhat rough way, and laughing about it)?
MEL-L6: huh.
LYNN 6: Yeah.  I mean, E4H got better each time it was offered, too, but it started from someplace we couldn't have reached on the first iteration in the early days of Olin.
LYNN 6: Ah.  Just read Jon's paragraph about conserving Olin.  Yeah, that is true, though it is not just from outsiders.  I think we are also very proud of what we do, and the results it gets, and then afraid that if we change it we may break it.
MEL-L6: I am intrigued by the E4H line of thought, but torn on how deep to dig into it. I think it might be helpful to keep listening to why you think you can do these things now, but couldn't before... as in, what's different, what you learned.
MEL-L6: people getting used to each other, being on the same page, having similar vocab, being able to refer to shared frameworks without building them from scratch...
MEL-L6: ...stars and planets aligning...
LYNN 6: There's a whole long conversation about how we didn't want to change anything in 2006 or 2007 (man, we just got done creating it, we were so tired!!!)
MEL-L6: ha! (re: 2006/2007)
LYNN 6: And then we did the innovating around the edges, because there was still a lot of tension about what changes were possible in the core with out breaking things/stepping on toes.
LYNN 6: And then we learned to make some changes to the core, starting a few years ago (maybe with math -> linearity)
LYNN 6: and now we're trying to make some bigger changes (entrepreneurship, e.g).
LYNN 6: Paraphrased-JON: I’m spending most of my time packaging and translating my courses, trying to communicate that creative process outside of Olin. And in doing so, I don’t have time for creating things at Olin.
LYNN 6: Sad, but probably true.
MEL-L6: and i think about the Olin call for hires, and what that might mean for innovation at Olin -- you're really throwing the barn doors open on that one.
LYNN 6: I got to create E4H, which was a lot of fun. (Co-create with Caitrin, of course)
MEL-L6: nods, re: your response to Jon 
LYNN 6: We first taught it in Jan 2011, so after the first summer institute.  And the things I had learned in all the work we did in those workshops and proposals helped frame how I thought about creating that course.
LYNN 6: That's what I mean when I say I couldn't have done it in 2003.
MEL-L6: nods again 
LYNN 6: What is 'I'? and FOCS are courses that got created out of whole cloth, but much earlier.
LYNN 6: They felt pretty different from me.
LYNN 6: to me.
LYNN 6: Paraphrased-MEL-L6: Can you only share things if you freeze them? (insert open source software engineering analogy with “development” stream and release freezes here)
MEL-L6: I have heard it commented that FOCS is a good example of an Olin course that feels totally different depending on who's teaching it. That's probably a sidenote, though, seeing what you're writing now.
LYNN 6: Jon can.  I mean, he spends an enormous amount of time on packaging things so that they are beautiful and comprehensible and accessible and presumably usable by others.
MEL-L6: He is brilliant at that. I want his LaTeX templates.
LYNN 6: I think that once he has put in all of that effort, the thing is so beautiful, it becomes harder to touch.
MEL-L6: Mm, like how we tell students to sketch with pencils and leave rough edges first.
LYNN 6: So.....do you know about the Stata Center?
MEL-L6: To show to users, and so on.
LYNN 6: And building 20?
MEL-L6: What about the Stata Center? I'm familiar with the building, and have heard stories about its architectural... um... incompatibility with real-world conditions.
LYNN 6: Yeah, so here's how (as I recall) that building came to be:
LYNN 6: The building previously on the site was a WWII temporary structure that stuck around until the end of the century.
LYNN 6: It was crappy plywood and metal and whatever, but because no one cared too much about it (it was temporary!) folks could do whatever they wanted in it.  It was legendary.
LYNN 6: In contrast, the space where the CS folks lived in the immediate pre-Stata building was an airtight box that had rules about what you could do.
MEL-L6: ooh, ooh, architecture shaping interactions... (Mel-brain gets excited sparks related to one of her/my preliminary results -- you'll see)
LYNN 6: MIT decided to hire a star architect for the building that would be the new CS home.  The two finalists were Gehry and Pei Cobb (Moakley Courthouse0, as I recall.
LYNN 6: The CS faculty really really wanted a building that would be flexible, like the old Building 20, not something that would be beautiful and need preserving and couldn't be modified.
LYNN 6: So the chose Gehry, who built out of plywood.
LYNN 6: But it was late Gehry, and the plywood was Gehry plywood, so they couldn't hack the building after all :(
MEL-L6: affordances.
LYNN 6: Jon's packaged curriculum might be a bit like a Pei, Cobb building.  Beautiful and functional, but pretty enough that you might be afraid to change it.
MEL-L6: I'm using this vocab and knowing that I first got it from your HFID class. Affordances.
MEL-L6: nods 
LYNN 6: You know I borrowed that syllabus, right?  And apparently it has been passed around the entire HCI community, or at least about half of it.
LYNN 6: True this (Jon):  translating and packaging are really rare skills.
LYNN 6: Interesting:  REMEMBERED ROB: The way we teach, the pedagogical style that people have, it's not just a pedagogical style. There's something about your pedagogical style that ties to your approach to life. This isn't just the way you teach, this is the way you are as a person.
LYNN 6: And I thought it was interesting even before I realized it becomes about me :)
MEL-L6: I did not know the provenance of your HFID syllabus, no. I don't think I thought too hard about those things when I was taking the class. It was "a class with Lynn, a Lynn-ish class, yay!"
MEL-L6: (also, "computers, yay!")
LYNN 6: Hysterically funny:  REMEMBERED ROB: When we were teaching “What Is I,” Lynn would be very quick to go to the board and start drawing out things, I mean, literally drawing flowcharts and categories on the board. I don’t have that ability to make a diagram on the board in the middle of a conversation and say, "Okay, so what do we have going on here?" That's Lynn in the classroom. Outside the classroom, with Lynn as a colleague, say in a committee meeting, she tends to be the first one to start scribbling on post-it notes. “Let’s get these things out there, let’s get them down, how do they fall into categories?”
MEL-L6: is laughing out loud - for reals - in the basement watching you reach and react to the last prompt
MEL-L6: partly because I see you quoting it, partly because I'm imagining your (visual) response to it as you read along it (based on my mental model of you) and because I know what the rest of it says...
LYNN 6: As I am sure you remember, Rob ran discussions masterfully.  And the fun thing is, he had a huge influence on structuring the class through the discussion, and I feel like I had a huge influence on the class by structuring the image that got created.  We worked very well together that way.
MEL-L6: continues grinning broadly
LYNN 6: Yes, I like to make structure.   Rob like to elicit voices.  And I believe that he's right:  Jon likes to see what is inside.
MEL-L6: I like the way you rephrased all of that so concisely.
MEL-L6: And subtly differently than Rob and I did.
LYNN 6: Just getting to where you and Rob do that.
LYNN 6: Jon and I do work together well sometimes, BTW :)
MEL-L6: I know you do! I've seen you do it -- it was why I was surprised when your (earlier, during-a-different-interview) comment re: sarcasm came up.
LYNN 6: OK, I'm about to turn to preliminary results.
LYNN 6: Any reason I shouldn't do that?
MEL-L6: I mean, just because we work well with someone doesn't mean we can't learn to work better with them... and just because we can learn to work better with someone doesn't mean we don't already work well together.
MEL-L6: None whatsoever. Go for it.
MEL-L6: I'm wondering how much sense the preliminary results will make without the voiceover-of-Mel that Rob got when he saw this.
MEL-L6: Or the earlier version, which was pretty similar. But anyway. I'm partly curious what sense you make of the words, too.
LYNN 6: Unless you are going to narrate your dissertation, the words will probably have to stand for themselves.
MEL-L6: My dissertation will be performative. With interpretative dance.
MEL-L6: But yes.
MEL-L6: Some of these results are way more boring than others, btw.
LYNN 6: oooh, interpretive dance!  and comics :)
MEL-L6: COMICS
MEL-L6: I will put in an expanded version of some of the sections, actually.
LYNN 6: I like this:  learning things during the narrative process (kinda surprised Mel)
MEL-L6: there we go. #4 and #5 have been expanded to what I hope are better explanations without my interpretative dance.
LYNN 6: We have to talk about deaf-accessible curriculum, but perhaps not here/now.
LYNN 6: The bit about teachers accommodating themselves reminds me of the HFID lesson (hard won) that students should not be members of their target user groups.
MEL-L6: well, in hindsight, it should have been obvious -- I mean, we make sense of things in new ways during these conversations, it's kinda like what you described re: your sabbatical, and mark and jon coming back from theirs.
LYNN 6: Of course.  But "should be obvious" and "was..." are different :)
MEL-L6: Oh, re: deaf-accessible curriculum -- I have early ideas on how to exactly that with very little overhead (at least for fall semester, depending on the class I teach), but yes, separate convo.
MEL-L6: Right. Like much of hindsight. :)
MEL-L6: (also, clearly these are emergent results that haven't been very solidified/cleaned-up yet, I'm in the middle of that gigantic wonderful mess as we speak)
MEL-L6: (er, type)
LYNN 6: OK, so I'm done reading now.
LYNN 6: Not sure I'm done sense-making, but talk to me and I will see what I can do.
MEL-L6: for the record, #3 and #4 are what I seem to be centering the rest of the results around -- #1 helps provide definitions
MEL-L6: #2 is a nice little side "heh, that's a useful tool/output" thing
MEL-L6: #5 is... something
MEL-L6: I wonder, first of all, whether these preliminary results make sense, and pass the sniff test.
LYNN 6: I note that a lot of your "results" are topics (noun phrases) rather than claims (noun + verb)
MEL-L6: they are, yes. I'm not yet comfortable with making claims based on my half-finished plunging through data I don't feel like I understand the threads of. :)
LYNN 6: Well, some anyway.
LYNN 6: Sorry, that was "some of your results".
MEL-L6: right now i'm at the "look, things that I think I'm noticing!" phase, which is all about noun phrases.
LYNN 6: Except that, in the end, a noun phrase is a topic rather than a claim, and a result is a claim.
MEL-L6: point.
LYNN 6: So I'm reading the noun phrase/topic and thinking "yeah, I'll bet there's something interesting to say about that", but not sure what the thing is.
MEL-L6: well, let me rephrase them as rough draft verb-ified claims...
LYNN 6: 1. is  probably "they learn 1ai and 1a2 and, ...")
LYNN 6: 2 is "Storytelling is/can be a way of approaching..."?
MEL-L6: #1: When faculty do [this narrative process thing, which needs a name], we can articulate the things they learn with this framework.
MEL-L6: #2 is - you got it
MEL-L6: #3 is a weird claim that's not fully explained here. I'm still awkward trying to state it.
MEL-L6: But basically, "you know how we keep on talking about how we need to do faculty workshop followup and keep the flame alive?"
MEL-L6: "as if the idealized case were to keep people constantly thinking about [topic of our workshop]"?
MEL-L6: "and that allowing them to drop out, forget, etc. and "grow cold" is suboptimal?"
MEL-L6: "what if it isn't?"
MEL-L6: "what if this coming-back-to-it-later sensemaking is actually kinda awesome in a different way?"
MEL-L6: "not better, maybe, just different"
LYNN 6: Ah, there's lovely literature on the importance of breaks in practicing a musical instrument.
MEL-L6: yeah, and I'm also thinking about the analogy of downtime during physical training (weightlifting, etc)
LYNN 6: I associate it with Jamshed Barucha, but I don't know whether it is his work or he is just the one who told me about it.
MEL-L6: there's also plenty about memory retrieval (which we touched on earlier)
MEL-L6: and how it's best to space your repetition
LYNN 6: Beautiful.  That is a nice result, if you can show that it might work that way.
MEL-L6: so there's a claim somewhere in there, but I'm hesitant to state it before I can back it up
MEL-L6: it's based on the difference between Olin and Berea stories
MEL-L6: in part
MEL-L6: since the Berea folks have not had their "sabbatical time" between their big design thingy and now
LYNN 6: Sure.  I don't know that you could definitively "prove" it in a study of this nature, so much as show that it is a plausible interpretation.
LYNN 6: Still, nice.
MEL-L6: ...right. theory finding, not theory validating/proving/etc.
MEL-L6: so that's the #3 claim, and I am still working on firming that up.
MEL-L6: (it's nice to know that you folks understand that this mess is part of the process.)
LYNN 6: Sure.  I get it, though, and I like what it suggests.
MEL-L6: #4 is about uncovering another side of curriculum design that we don't often talk about.
MEL-L6: "faculty design their courses not only for their students, but for themselves"
MEL-L6: ("but they may not be quite as explicit about that process")
LYNN 6: Interesting.  Jon's packaging fits there as well, as a different point.
MEL-L6: ...it does!
MEL-L6: yeah, it does.
MEL-L6: and #5 is close to a verb phrase claim already: "curriculum structures and interpersonal structures co-construct each other"
LYNN 6: :)
LYNN 6: Yeah.  True, and interesting how the virtual space of the curriculum is architecture that governs our interactions (and vice versa).
MEL-L6: based on what you know about the stories you've told me, and your experience (which we have only discussed tiny fragments of it), do these results sound (1) plausible and (2) helpful?
LYNN 6: Yes to both.
MEL-L6: I think yes to both, but I am biased :)
MEL-L6: AWESOME
MEL-L6: and I'm looking at the time and wondering about Lynn energy levels and thinking we might want to move towards wrapping up.
LYNN 6: Yup.  I'm ready to end this transcript.  I am leaving it with a very nice, satisfied feeling.
MEL-L6: in terms of -- any loose threads we need to tie (I have on my to-do list getting image approval from Mark), or what this experience has been like, or... etc
MEL-L6: I am also looking at this with great satisfaction and a little bit of pride.
MEL-L6: and gratitude. a lot of gratitude.
LYNN 6: I have enjoyed it.  I like the opportunity to sit and reflect on this stuff, and the conversations have been great.
MEL-L6: (I have been learning a lot from these interactions, and I'm thankful you've been willing to plunge into them.)
LYNN 6: I also like the mode of interaction we settled on, which makes me feel like I can own my own voice (much more than the mode you used with others).
LYNN 6: Sometime, we can have a long conversation about different interaction modes.  I'm finding that fascinating.
MEL-L6: which ironically isn't your literal (speaking) voice, but -- yeah, that worked well!
MEL-L6: ...I think that would be a lovely conversation to have also in light of all the disability-stuff we've been talking about lately. I've been thinking about that quite a bit as well, re: interaction modes
LYNN 6: Yeah....It's my voice, for sure, and the fact that there's nothing to hear except key-clicks is really not relevant....which is cool.
MEL-L6: and energy expenditures and what the idea of a "true voice" means, and what it means for someone's "real self" to "come through"
MEL-L6: well, we took out the things that were distracting you
LYNN 6: years of conversation ahead of us, Mel :)
MEL-L6: getting in the way of you being able to speak without thinking too much about the mode of communicating -- when the communication became a tool-at-hand rather than an object of perusal in its own right.
MEL-L6: anyway.
MEL-L6: i grow verbose.
MEL-L6: i can stop now.
LYNN 6: end transcript?
MEL-L6: ----------------- END TRANSCRIPT ---------------
