MEL-L1: First thing, I want you to introduce you to Dina, our transcriptionist for today.
LYNN 1: Hi there, the Google Doc loaded but not the other one. I’m wondering if it needs me to sign in, or whether it is because the computer or network are unhappy so I’ll try another computer. 
MEL-L1: You see the one Dina is typing into but not the other one? 
LYNN 1: I do. 
MEL-L1: That happened with Rob too. Huh. it is the PDF. I’ll send you the form and there is, um, the IRB magic thing we have to look at. 
LYNN 1: If you just want to e-mail that to me as a PDF, that probably works well. 
MEL-L1: It has been sent.
LYNN 1: Dina, if I may, how critical is it that I not talk over Mel?
DINA (typing): Very! Ha-ha ha. I won’t be able to hear if both of you talk at the same time. That is all. 
LYNN 1: I had another question, but I’ve forgotten. 
MEL-L1: That’s all right. Dina, would it be possible for you to... [untranscribed request to Dina to use “MEL” and “LYNN” instead of “SPEAKER” designations in the transcript]
DINA (typing): sure, let me make an entry real quick with that.
MEL (notes): [Mel and Lynn talk about scheduling in the meantime, and when Dina begins transcribing again...]
LYNN 1: My schedule is not as crazy. I am --  I was out of town until Friday. I came back that night. That was hard, but, this semester --  it is reasonable. 
MEL-L1: Wow! 
LYNN 1: I’m in shock myself! 
MEL-L1: I’m so happy! Congratulations! Did it just magically happen, did Sharon [Breitbart, an Olin staff member who works with Lynn] bother you about it, what happened?
LYNN 1: It was a lot of things converging. 
MEL-L1: I’m glad to hear that.
LYNN 1: I knew it was going to be a while before I got into it last semester.
It was difficult because I had no time, but it was less painful than it may have been because I knew I had no time.
I read the form and copy beside it, I don’t think I can easily get you a signature and talk at the same time, so tell me how you want to deal with that. 
MEL-L1: I have a paper version that I can drop in the mail tonight and it has a stamp and envelope and you can just sign and send it back. It is okay if you send it back three months from now. 
The weird thing about the study [is], instead of of de-identifying everyone, I’ll be using full names and the transcript itself [will] available on the site.
You will have a chance to edit -- that is part of the interview time, that is why it is so long.
We’ll stop about 30 minutes before the end and look through things and anything you want to modify, and have a one-week time out in case you wake up during the night and say "oh, I shouldn't have said that about Jon!" You can take that out, edit, do that, too. Does that make sense? Is it cool? 
LYNN 1: It does.
MEL-L1: Think about this as the sort of thing you would talk about with somebody at dinner at a conference or something. 
There's no compensation for participation --  can we skip the rest of this conversation? 
LYNN 1: I read the form. 
MEL-L1: All right! Dina, are you ready to transcribe?
DINA (typing): yes, ma’am! Ha-ha ha
LYNN 1: She’s been going. 
MEL-L1: We’re doing a study on engineering and technology faculty and their experiences with curriculum and specifically the process of curriculum revision.
Both schools, Olin and Berea -- which is where Matt Jadud is now -- have done a giant overhaul, and as part of that they made design a really big deal. Whatever that turns out to mean. 
I’ll be asking about your experiences and going through that, the story of you, and design at Olin, and that sort of thing.
Voluntary participation, can stop at any time.
You can, I’ll give you a heads up because Rob mentioned, said this in his interview -- you can look at whatever you want during this. I’m watching the transcript because I need closed-captioning, but, Rob found out looking at that while he was talking, is very distracting and he went back at the end to review. That is your call. We can try different things and see what you like.
LYNN 1: Okay. 
MEL-L1: First part, how, just sort of introduce yourself. Who are you? What do you do? In terms of the curriculum, I’m thinking of the earlier one, the revision that happened 10, 11 years ago now. What was your role and how did you get involved in that? 
LYNN 1: That’s at least two questions. Who am I? My background is in computer science and in cognitive science.
I was a professor at MIT for 10 years before I left to help create a brand-new college.
I’ve been at Olin since before there were students.
I was involved in the design of significant fractions of the curriculum and many other aspects of Olin, so I feel I had some hand in the creation of the Olin culture. 
I speak of myself as a broadly interdisciplinary person. Both because in recent years I’ve working across a lot of disciplinary boundaries, but actually because even within computer science, artificial intelligence is a pretty fundamentally interdisciplinary field, and my work within it spanned several of those disciplines. 
I spend a lot of my life thinking about things at disciplinary boundaries.
The question was what was my role in the creation of the college? Sorry, that was the other question? 
MEL-L1: If you think back 11 years ago, when the curriculum was being designed and design thinking was weaving its way into all of Olin teaching ever, how would you describe your role as a character in that? 
LYNN 1: I think the curriculum was designed starting 13 and a half years ago.
I arrived in September of 2000 and we were trying to figure out what the curriculum would be.
It was continuously evolving for at least the next five years and, one might say, even quite a bit since then. 
Mm, I was the only computer scientist.
I was one of the AHS faculty.
I was a member, I was, um, one of the people with a design background, particularly from my HCI experience and cognitive science experience.
I was an equal partner with my faculty colleagues in the design of the curriculum.
MEL-L1: How many faculty back then? roughly, order of magnitude? 10, certainly not 20 yet...
LYNN 1: I don’t have write access [to the live transcript document], do I? Write access. 
MEL-L1: I think you have that. 
LYNN 1: If you could share with my Olin e-mail...
MEL-L1: If you reload the document in your browser, you should have that. 
LYNN 1: There were 8 faculty members plus 3 faculty members with administrative titles in the first year I was here. The second year, 16 faculty members. Plus the administrators. 
MEL-L1: You came at the same time Rob and Jon did? 
LYNN 1: I was here a year before Rob and Jon. 
MEL-L1: They came the same time the Partners did. One year before they did?
LYNN 1: All the people still there: Diana [Dabby], Joanne Pratt, Brian Storey, Steve Holt, and I were here in 2000. John Bourne you may also know. Mike Moody also came to visit for part of that year. Steve Schiffman was at Babson but spent time with us. (Lynn is speaking slowly and helping to revise the spelling of this part of the transcript as she goes.)
DINA (typing): sorry, some words I can’t hear exactly so I’m getting as close as possible! Ha-ha ha
LYNN 1: Then, Mark [Somerville], Jon [Stolk], Rob [Martello], Helen [Donis-Keller] -- Brian, Brian Storey was here the first year!
MEL-L1: Tell us about your experiences -- I want you to be able to talk freely, don't worry about the editing, and I’ll come up with the edits as I can.
LYNN 1: Okay. 
MEL-L1: Just a little experience setting, just want to start getting into the -- if you’re doing a once-upon-a time, story time, the story of when you first designed the curriculum and how did design, design process, design thinking, how did that come to you? How did that come to be? The dynamics. You describe a lot of people in this cast of characters, so how did it start making its way in? 
LYNN 1: Are you specifically interested in how the design thinking came to have a role in the Olin curriculum, or how the Olin curriculum was designed? 
MEL-L1: I’m interested in the first one, in the context of the second. So, but, not so much how design was shaped into the Olin curriculum last year, but a decade ago, when design started becoming a thing. 
LYNN 1: First of all, it was not a curriculum revision process, it was a curriculum development process.
It was long, messy, and different, in the first year, from the way it was in the partner year, from the way it was in the first actual year of the curriculum, and different during the years across the years as well.
The original vision of the Olin curriculum before I was here had something to do with engineering and entrepreneurship.
MEL-L1: Is that where the triangle came from?
LYNN 1: No, that was during the first year I was here, 2000 to 2001. Design was not yet at the center of it.
The Olin foundation was responsible for engineering and entrepreneurship, and I think that is why we were co-located with Babson, the connection was important with that as well.
The Olin triangle was meant to also include people. At the time, the way we characterized it, engineering is using technical knowledge to solve society’s problems, with equal emphasis on society and solve, as well as on technical knowledge. Those are the 3 corners of the original Olin triangle. 
MEL-L1: (listing the corners of the original Olin triangle) Technology, society’s problems, solved?
LYNN 1: Yes. Technology, society, and solving problems. Technology and technical knowledge being engineering, society being the AHS, and solve problems being "make it real" entrepreneurship.
If you didn’t hear design in that picture, that is not a coincidence. Given what we know now, we can say, it makes sense design would be in the middle of that. We didn’t really know then how central design would be.
We fumbled our way through a bunch of things, but, in the partner year, the curriculum was more about hands-on, experimental learning, which naturally led itself to some design work, but not necessarily human-centered design work.
The hands-on experimental learning, get people to create things that help them to learn, and help reinforce engineering problem solving.
For example, [the class] "What is I" was designed and prototyped in the partner year.
The [activity with the] bottle rockets were designed and prototyped in the partner year. 
In the second year of the curriculum, there was a space carved out in the fourth semester for the Sophomore Design Project.
The idea was, over the course of the first three semesters, these integrated, math/science/engineering, and, hopefully, in some cases, some of the fields with entrepreneurship or AHS, that play out over the first three semesters would lead to this intensive design experience in the fourth semester.
There was an idea there would be hands-on design projects in every year. That came from a meeting in the first year, before the partner year and we were all committed to that.
The first-year was probablly bottle rockets or something like that. It was much about technical, and helping people to actualize technical knowledge than it was about design for end users.
There were other examples of design projects, so, a mobile, sort of somewhat more artsy but mechanics[-focused] project, [a class called] "Things That Go Bang," things that were a bunch of other design things.
Again, less user-centered.
Dan Frey, one of the faculty members from the outset, he joined before -- same time I did, he’s a design professor at MIT and he was the lead for the sophomore design project.
He left and went back to MIT before the sophomore design project was ever taught.
Jill Crisman -- [who] was hired in the second cohort with Jon, Rob, Mark, and Helen -- and I did some work thinking about what the Sophomore Design Project would look like,
and we hired Ben Linder. Ben may have not come on board until the second real year.
MEL-L1: Yeah, his first year was my first year.
LYNN 1: That’s what I thought.
Dan left in, at the end of the first real semester, so, Dan left at the end of 2002. No, 2001. 2002, Dan left at the end of 2002.
Ben was hired in the spring of 2003, but didn’t start until summer or fall.
In the spring, Jill and I were the design team, but knowing at some time Ben would be joining. 
Chris Heape, who was from the, some design school in Copenhagen, I won’t get it right. He was Danish and visiting us for the spring.
Chris, and Ben, and Jill and I and Mark and Jon, I believe were the six faculty members who taught the first incarnation of the sophomore design project. 
MEL-L1: Which was UOCD. (simultaneously with Lynn)
LYNN 1: Which was UOCD. (simultaneously with Mel)
LYNN 1: I can’t remember what it was called the first time.
The folder on my computer for that course was called SDP.
I’m not sure when the name change actually happened, but that would have been your second semester, which was the first fourth semester.
That course was really, really important for Olin. It pulled together all of the technical skills people already had, but repurposed them towards human needs.
That was the year when the bicycle messenger project was one of the teams and the stories we all told each other about that semester were really important. 
It was also the most overtly studio-taught course and the one with the most significant team teaching.
We literally changed studios we taught in at least by the third of the course and, maybe, I remember wandering into other studios sometimes.
We were all learning how to do this kind of teaching.
MEL-L1: Okay. 
DINA (typing): there’s a terrible echo with you, Mel! I can’t really understand you, Mel, the echo is really bad.
MEL-L1: Don’t worry about transcribing me then, just do Lynn and I’ll fill in myself.
DINA (typing): okay, no problem! Just letting you know!
MEL-L1: Lynn, can you understand me okay? 
LYNN 1: Yes. 
MEL-L1: Murphy’s Law no matter what you do. Wait, the echo went away!
DINA (typing): yes it did! Yeah!
MEL-L1: What I’d like to do is take a moment and start doing a first version of the looping back through stuff you already said.
This is very, sort of Olin style, reflective, meta.
There’s a few things I notice from what you’re saying, um, on the second to last page of the transcript.
Dina will keep writing as we talk about this and I want to loop back to a couple things. If you see patterns or things, want to add or change things, just pop those in. 
The first thing I noticed is, I started doing the comments on the side, and you were talking about the bottle rockets and the courses and curriculum as things you design and prototype. You’re using design language to talk about making these courses as well. Is that a thing that, it seems a lot of the Olin professors do it. Does that match with your experience?
LYNN 1: Using the language, that is something we do easily, now, as part of the culture; 
but it is also the case that the partner year was intentionally created as an opportunity to pilot and prototype.
The activities during the partner year were, some of them were miniature versions we later did in the curriculum.
Some were explicitly teams or task forces to look at particular questions.
For example, what should the role of chemistry in the Olin curriculum be?
Implement a curriculum in AHS, and what should that curriculum be?
Assessment at Olin? I was involved in that, so I know what, what are the jobs we want assessment to do for us? Why do we need assessment? What are the purposes for it?
There’s certification, and there’s feedback, formatively, and there’s making a recommendation to the future and there are all sort of things that assessment plays, and, maybe different mechanisms are better for different things.
Also thinking about what we wanted, institutionally, out of it.
We had those activities, Rob and I taught what is the first version of "What is I?" It was a five-week course.
We kind of figured out how the course should go. We figured it out partly thinking about it, partly trying it and fixing it.
Or not. You may feel differently. (Note: The last comment may be referring to when Mel took the next incarnation of the "What is I" course in 2004.)
I’m trying to remember what language we used to describe the partner year. I would guess there were words like pilot and design in thinking about what it was we were doing. Even then, before design was so central, I think we did use some of those words.
I have documents and I can find out. 
MEL-L1: We may come back to that in the later storytelling sessions. If you ever want to go "I have historical documents!"
LYNN 1: Yep. It would be easier to know we were going to talk about them so I can locate them.
MEL-L1: Okay. Let’s bookmark that for one of the later storytelling sessions. One of the things is just feeling everything out and what is this rough territory we can come in and come back to. Effectively, I’ll ask you to tell the same story six times, more or less. 
LYNN 1: We can see if any bear similarity to one another. 
MEL-L1: Exactly. That is one of the things I’m looking at in the research study, how does the evolution of the way we tell a story happen over time, and what do we put in, and yep, ten months from now you’re not going to be telling the story the same way.
I don’t know how to tell this part, but I was struck by the language of designing design in the curriculum, and it being a lingua franca for professors now, and you said that was the language used in your partner year also.
Was it everyone who used the words "prototype" and "design," or just a couple of you?
LYNN 1: Some of these words, "prototype," maybe; "pilot," definitely. "Design?" Probably.
I think the, if you looked at those early documents, you would see language that maybe was more typical of traditional engineering design and less typical of the kind of user-centered design that feels like it is more at the heart of Olin.
I think that the full-blown design language we tend to use now wasn’t present.
The majority of Olin faculty members were engineers or people who could pretend to be engineers. Most engineers have some background in engineering design. 
MEL-L1: What do you mean by engineering design? 
LYNN 1: [A] discipline within engineering and often within subfields of engineering in which the work is generative.
Although that is me talking about it, not me using its language. 
MEL-L1: One other thing that struck me, and I want to ask if you had anything you wanted to talk about as we go through the things we said so far, is, um, we’ve been saying the word "design" a lot. There seems to be several different senses in which you were using it during your storytime.
Prototyping, designing, it seems like there’s a different sense in the word design there than when you said, we put the "intensive design experience" in the fourth semester. That sounds like a different type of design. And then "engineering design" was something different all together. 
LYNN 1: With respect to "engineering design," that seems like the easiest one.
In the Olin context, we, it would be classes like software design, circuit design or mechanism design. Those are all kinds of engineering design. They’re all generative processes falling in their respective discipline.
Every engineering discipline has a generative process or some sorts of them that are part and parcel of that discipline. That makes engineering different from science.
When one thinks of engineering being fundamentally a creative act, creating a better widget, in the better sense of widget, it is not the fabrication of the widget, but figuring what that widget ought to be.
Engineering design is very narrow sometimes, one has a specific set of requirements. One maybe even has specifications so, getting, there were, the specification bit, that is traditionally engineering design. 
We, at Olin, talk about design being a people-to-people activity and you’ve seen Mark’s picture of -- not getting this exactly right -- Something like, people have problems or opportunities which generate needs, which generate requirements, generating specifications, generating prototypes, creating products, that go back to people.
MEL-L1: (interrupting) Yeah.
LYNN 1: Sorry, go ahead. 
MEL-L1: I was going, yeah, I remember that diagram. 
LYNN 1: That picture is a picture of design in which engineering design is a component, but there's much more to that picture than engineering design.
A graphic designer does something that is design, but it is not engineering design and not people-to-people design, either.
It is maybe another part of that process that is generative, but it is --  in some ways, narrower than the people-to-people design.
Industrial design occupies a significant fraction of the people-to-people; product design occupies some of the people-to-people. User design is maybe the whole continuum. This encompasses the specifications and back to people. Industrial design is usually more front loaded, so, all of those things are design.
Within a design, given a particular set of tools, design looks different. Software design is different from circuit from circuit design, even if they share properties. It is different from graphic design.
There was something else that I forgot.
MEL-L1: You said you did, I know you teach the human-centered design course with software -- what, you’ve described the different disciplines of design and which of those would you identify with? So that's the software design, the user interface design, the curriculum design, to say three? What would you say?
LYNN 1: I would identify with design more broadly, my background, before I came to Olin, I had some experience with software design, and, with the design of human-computer interactions, but definitely not led by the user-centered vision. Very definitely technology-centered vision of design of human-computer interaction.
Also design of some very technical things within the software and --  more, even computer systems, architecture stuff, hardware design,
I’ll have trouble characterizing that in a way that is meaningful. I’m not interested in spending the time to make that clear -- 
MEL-L1: I understand what you mean. 
LYNN 1: It is very technical, very much within the space of what I would call engineering design. It was a very specific design.
I had done curriculum design. I had not, when I came to Olin, seen that as connected to the other design activities. The recognition that curriculum design is, at some level, design of experience for learners. [That was] something I might have known, but I’m not sure I articulated. 
MEL-L1: Okay. 
LYNN 1: I don’t think I saw all of the connections I see now.
In a lot of ways, curriculum design experience was the most human-centered of all the design I had done, even though I was designing human-computer interfaces.
MEL-L1: Interesting. 
LYNN 1: It’s the only field I worked in where the people were obvious. 
MEL-L1: Curriculum design? 
LYNN 1: Yep. 
MEL-L1: Looking back at the earlier chunk of story, anything that strikes you that [you want to look at?] And we’ll take a pause, and give Dina a pause, and we’ll have another meta-explainey moment and then come back for a second, shorter rounds and that will be all. 
LYNN 1: Okay. I haven’t read through the transcript, really. I can do that. 
MEL-L1: Yeah. Why don’t we -- let’s take a moment to skim through and see if anything catches your attention and then, before we get into that, I want to do a step back, mini-conversation on on how the process is going and we’ll go into the things that are missing or --
LYNN 1: Okay. 
MEL-L1: Five minutes sounds okay? 
LYNN 1: Sure. 
MEL-L1: Lynn, I’ll be here in the background listening and drinking tea, so wheneveryou feel like you’ve got it just let me know.
(Dina goes on break, Mel starts typing Lynn's voiced comments)
MEL PARAPHRASING LYNN 1: I’m finding it hard to read for the big picture when there’s a transcription error. I find it jarring and I’m trying not to correct as I read, but sometimes I can’t make sense of what is there.
I’m having trouble with the task you’ve assigned me.
Transcription is hard, it lacks contextual knowedge.
Not looking at the transcription while talking helps, but now it means I can’t go back and figure out what the original sense was.
It's hard to split attention between the conversation while I'm having it, and the thought that I'll be looking at it again later in order to fix it.
MEL PARAPHRASING MEL-L1: Different people have different styles of interviewing with realtime transcription.
MEL PARAPHRASING LYNN 1: I suggest audio-recording interviews just to fix transcription afterwards, like with depositions. They are audiorecorded so I can listen to it afterwards and correct what I said. "Oh, that’s what I said."
There was at leas tone instance of Mel responding not to what Lynn said, but to what was transcribed -- so during the conversation (becuase Lynn was not looking at the transcript) she was confused why Mel responded that way, but when reading the transcript she saw "Oh, that's why."
MEL PARAPHRASING MEL-L1: Lynn, you are also talking way slower than your usual Lynn speed.
MEL PARAPHRASING LYNN 1: It is also that I'm on Skype and saying things for the record.
I propose typing a lot.
Distance conversations are more awkward and slow for me in general, independent of the transcription thing.
(The decision is made to move to Skype chat between Lynn and Mel only, and end realtime transcription.)
MEL-L1: ----- START -----
LYNN 1: whee!
MEL-L1: let's try this for say 10 minutes or until someone poops out and see how it goes
MEL-L1: whoa, so much more comfortable
LYNN 1: (whoops -- that was supposed to go above ---START--- :0-)
MEL-L1: no worries :)
MEL-L1: so, the idea I had for digging deeper
MEL-L1: was that you mentioned the experience of teaching what would become uocd being super important
MEL-L1: and the teaching conversations
MEL-L1: and what i'm hearing you say in your story is that the "design" thing in the olin curriculum was... it sounds super emergent
MEL-L1: rather than "aha yes UOCD from the beginning," more like maybe "we did a thing! about design! oh right, that's what we did, it's a good idea! let's write it down and do it again!" (or some variant)
LYNN 1: (for future reference I think an IM client might be a little better -- something about this interface isn't quite right.)
MEL-L1: (we'll just keep typing simultaneously i guess)
MEL-L1: ah. do you have a preferred -- AIM? um... google talk?
LYNN 1: Yup -- .I like the simultaneity)
MEL-L1: YAY SIMULTANEOUS
LYNN 1: let's stick here for now.
MEL-L1: ok.
LYNN 1: IM next time if this is a win.
MEL-L1: yep. AOL IM specifically?
MEL-L1: anyhow. if you could transport yourself back in time... 12 years? whenever the first-run UOCD course ran, you're studio-teaching
LYNN 1: I wind up using messages on my mac, but I can talk to almost anything.
LYNN 1: SDP was always intended to be a part of everyone's curriuclum
MEL-L1: and start telling that story of "lynn... in uocd... learning about this 'design' thing..."
LYNN 1: We thought it would be a mid-way, pull everything together kind of experience
MEL-L1: MEL nods and clicks into more listening mode
LYNN 1: I wonder whether maybe we had an individual design experience idea for Junior year, or I may be hallucinating that.
Maybe it was a more discipline-specific experience. What turned into design depth -- but the Jr year was underdesigned (and maybe still is).
LYNN 1: We always knew we'd have senior design (SCOPE)
LYNN 1: so we knew we needed a midway design bit, which was going to be SDP.
LYNN 1: I think we thought design in the first year was the bottle rocket kind of thing; applying technical knowledge, practicing, etc., but not a major design experience in the same way.
LYNN 1: SDP (or UOCD, as it turned out to be) was overloaded with things it might have been
LYNN 1: I can find some documents about where we thought we were going with it.
LYNN 1: I think there might have been a community aspect to at least one of the versions we kicked around.
LYNN 1: (sort-of engineering for humanity/service design)
LYNN 1: But we wound up with intensive immersion into users
MEL-L1: (we can totally do a documents-on-hand session for one of the storytelling sessions -- I'll also be talking with Terri Dunphy for a "let's dig up the history! let's find all the files!" in mid-March so we can do a little of that work if needed too)
LYNN 1: Perhaps partly Dan (Frey) thought about this; perhaps it came more from Ben and Chris.
LYNN 1: Anyway, we had students doing deep dives into the lives of various user groups, and that meant that a lot of us were coaching them on things we'd not done before.
LYNN 1: Mark Somerville does a great story about how he learned to teach design.
LYNN 1: Basically we were winging it, trying to ask good questions, learning how to coach.
LYNN 1: The studio setup was approximately what it still is, though the furniture wasn't quite as good, I think.
LYNN 1: Or maybe we did get the good furniture just in time for the first year.
LYNN 1: There was a lot of last-minute planning and a lot of wandering into other studios to see how things were going and whehter there were any good ideas to borrow.
LYNN 1: There was a lot of learning from one another and a lot of learning from the students.
LYNN 1: And there was a certain amount of asking questions in the hopes that students would figure out whatever they needed to figure out, because we weren't going to be able to provide the answers :)
MEL-L1: even more visible "we are building the airplane while we are flying it" sense than the usual olin classes in the first few years?
MEL-L1: heh, sage on the stage to guide on the side
LYNN 1: Yeah; I think this was the largest stretch for most of the folks doing it, so definitely a lot of visible building-while-flying.
MEL-L1: (because I totally remember Brad Minch's "hi, I'm brad, this is POE, that's about all they told me about the class too" introduction)
LYNN 1: Yeah -- but I think Brad at least had *done* POE things himself, even if he didn't quite know what the class was going to be.
MEL-L1: point taken
LYNN 1: Jon and Mark had basically not done user-centered design at all (except of course for the curriculum bit you already perceptively noted), and Jill and I were only a bit further along, so it was really Ben and Chris who were immersed in these things.
LYNN 1: That's a pretty small fraction of the class :)
MEL-L1: Oh yes.
MEL-L1: And Chris was temporary.
LYNN 1: It was very much a "fail early, fail often" approach.
LYNN 1: Just try something -- the worst that happens is we'll learn from it.
LYNN 1: And there were big culture issues, as there always are in UOCD (or any time you teach engineers ethnography, though that's another word we didn't start using until later).
MEL-L1: even with caitlin -- wait, caitlin wasn't there yet...
MEL-L1: ...whoa this was a long time ago.
LYNN 1: But the first year through, there were no students who had survived the experience and even been made stronger by it.
LYNN 1: Yup; Caitrin arrived afterwards. Maybe your UOCD year?
MEL-L1: Right, my class got the "UOCD will SUCK while you do it but it's SO AWESOME aftewwards" testimonials
MEL-L1: ...possibly my uocd year, yeah. or the one after, at latest.
LYNN 1: Well, but the first year didn't know it would be awesome afterwards :)
MEL-L1: Right. I do remember significant complaining from '06.
LYNN 1: Yup. Still happens, but there's more understanding that the discomfort is a part of the process rather than a mistake.
MEL-L1: Especially the more "hardcore technical" people (to use a convenient stereotyping term.)
LYNN 1: I do think that HFID has benefitted enormously from that discomfort.
MEL-L1: MEL chuckles.
LYNN 1: So we had this idea that folks needed to do more design between SDP (UOCD) and senior design -- 
LYNN 1: Ben taught Sustainable; I taught HFID; I am trying to remember what else was part of design depth in the early days.
LYNN 1: Maybe DFM or PDD
LYNN 1: The idea was that, unlike software design or mechanical design, these were classes that were not about the disciplinary kind of engineering design; these were classes that put design first.
LYNN 1: And by doing these classes, we added to Olin's culture of design.
MEL-L1: So I'm trying to make sense of this UOCD teaching experience in light of "design" and "Olin curriculum revision/creation" as a territory we're exploring -- 
it sounds like you knew (as you're typing right now) that you wanted A Design Thing at that point in the experience, sophomore year -- so there was some sort of big-picture "this goes here in the 4-year experience" thought there -- and I suppose there was some notion of what the semester-long course itself would look like (maybe? like a syllabus? it's Olin, so you never know!) before you started teaching it... and then there was the teaching experience, and then there was the "wait, what DID we do?" moment afterwards?
MEL-L1: MEL nods
LYNN 1: Plus at some point not too long after that, I think the first year cohorts got reshuffled into ICBs
LYNN 1: and design nature got created.
MEL-L1: (oh man this will be *so* interesting to put into conversation with Rob's first interview when we do a future storytelling round)
MEL-L1: MEL nods
MEL-L1: design nature was "mechanical nature" or "mech nature" the first round, but yeah
LYNN 1: sry; one disadvantage of skype chat is that stuff scrolls off the top. reading your long passage at 5:06.
MEL-L1: (the long paragraph i typed might be better rephrased as: "If you were telling the story of UOCD as an Olin-starts-seeing-design-as-a-curricular-thing story, what would the chapters of that book be titled?" to shamelessly steal a Sally/Sebastian research prompt)
MEL-L1: MEL nods
LYNN 1: This: "t sounds like you knew (as you're typing right now) that you wanted A Design Thing at that point in the experience, sophomore year -- so there was some sort of big-picture "this goes here in the 4-year experience" thought there "
LYNN 1: Yeah -- I can go look at documents at some point, but here is my attempt to reconstruct it:
LYNN 1: We had a picture for the curriculum overall. (Have you seen the foundation/specialization/realization picture? I can draw it for you sometime, or create a description)
LYNN 1: We had a design for the first year, because we'd done it (though we changed it almost as soon as we'd done it)
LYNN 1: We had a sense of how things were supposed to sequence and go.
MEL-L1: I think it may be somewhere in the "engineer of 20/20" document or "once upon a curriculum" or... somewhere -- I still have all the info docs Olin sent me before I enrolled (I figured they'd be useful someday)
LYNN 1: We never did really design the third year.
LYNN 1: Hence Mark Chang's "the third year needs some love" ad hoc committee.
MEL-L1: we had a what? i did not hear of this committee
MEL-L1: did you seriously call it "the third year needs some love"?
LYNN 1: But we designed the culminating experiences: a year-long industry-sponsored engineering design experience, plus an individual "actualization" performance-before-experts mini-capstone in AHS or E!
LYNN 1: Yup: "did you seriously call it "the third year needs some love"?"
MEL-L1: whoa (re name informality == awesome)
MEL-L1: and yep, that sounds like scope and ahscap
LYNN 1: So we knew that we'd have integrated experiences in the first two (or three -- another side story) semesters, and that by the end of the fourth semester the shared foundation would be largely complete.
LYNN 1: Clearly this culminated with some sort of tie-it-together design experience.
LYNN 1: Chapter 1: We need a design experience in the fourth semester. <several ideas of what this could be>
LYNN 1: Chapter 2: _*()&^&^, our design prof is leaving -- we're hiring someone else, but really shouldn't we plan this already>
LYNN 1: (That's meant to end with a ? rather than a > )
MEL-L1: MEL chuckles and nods
LYNN 1: Chapter 3: Ben, please save the day. Jill and I will help you, but really, we defer to you as our design expert and will sit here quietly (or not :) )
LYNN 1: I'm sure there's a Chapter 3.5 where Ben figures out he should bring in Chris or something; I don't recall how that magic happened. Or maybe there's another way that Chris wound up at Olin.)
LYNN 1: Chapter 4: Well, here we are. Er. Um. Bike messengers!!! (And campus police officers, and ER nurses, and a bunch of others.)
LYNN 1: Chapter 4.5: Really, when we say we can't tell you what to do, we're not just being snarky. And yes, we do know what we're doing. Why do you ask?
LYNN 1: (Or maybe not. Ask Ben?)
MEL-L1: huh, interesting -- this is turning out to be "the story of uocd, in which lynn is a character" as a way of starting to tell the story of "design! in the olin curriculum! across all the years and disciplines and all the everything!!!"
MEL-L1: MEL chuckles
MEL-L1: oh gosh now i wish someone would write that book
MEL-L1: (maybe that's, like, one chapter of my dissertation)
LYNN 1: Chapter 5: Phew! Don't have to do this one again for a year. (But hey, that was pretty cool.)
LYNN 1: Chapter 6 and 7 and 8: We start using post-its in our meeting. We start talking about things like "generative thinking". We start figuring out what we did. We teach HFID (well, I do) and it turns out that UOCD was useful after all. We start to incorporate what we learned into how we think. 
And we teach the junior year without having given it enough thought, so it winds up the orphan year, a bit.
MEL-L1: so you start uocd-ing uocd (before?) the second time you teach it?
LYNN 1: Oh, and everyone tells the bicycle messenger story, but I actually like the flashlight (campus police) better.
MEL-L1: but you have premade presentation slides (or someone does) for the bike messenger story :)
LYNN 1: I don't recall when we started using these techniques in our own work, but I only ever taught UOCD once (before this semester, which is my second time through).
MEL-L1: well, they're certainly all over i2e2 now
MEL-L1: erp, sorry, "collaboratory"
LYNN 1: Yes. The bicycle messenger story is a great one. But it no longer makes sense, because the technology has changed. The flashlight still makes perfect sense.
MEL-L1: (looking at the time here, when you feel you've listed all the book chapters we might be at a good pause/wrap-up point)
MEL-L1: mmm, point (re flashlight/bike stories)
LYNN 1: Ben and Mark took UOCD to Chile (U de Chile in Santiago); I don't remember exactly when.
LYNN 1: I mean the class, which they helped U de Chile set up.
LYNN 1: Probably pretty early on.
LYNN 1: I know Mark and I were both using UOCD techniques on our sabbaticals (2007-8)
LYNN 1: It was first taught spring '04, so there's a pretty narrow window from not really doing it to doing it in spades.
LYNN 1: But it's not like we did nothing before: We had a giant calendar all over the mods during partner year.
LYNN 1: We did a certain amount of basic brainstorming and sketching; just not nearly so much.
MEL-L1: and there's the doing (which may be emergent), too -- and then there's the formally declaring and describing that This Is How It Is (as much as that can be said of anything at Olin) -- and it sounds like that process happened super fast also
MEL-L1: (ok, I'm arriving at the conclusion that text chat interviews work infinitely better for you and we should just do this next time from the start?)
LYNN 1: Well, we were pretty good at adopting things that worked.
MEL-L1: You had to be. Survival mechanism. :)
LYNN 1: We had all read the Ideo book (The Art of Innovation). We knew we needed to prototype and then learn from the prototype. That started partner year.
LYNN 1: And partner year was a good learning mechanism for: you don't really know how it's going to work until you try it. Try it, even if you are pretty sure it's not going to work out, because you will still learn from the trying.
MEL-L1: (side note: i can keep going if you want to keep going, but if you have a hard stop i want to make sure I'm not making you late for something else you want to do)
MEL-L1: MEL grins re partner year
LYNN 1: (I don't have a hard stop, but I may be flagging, so let's see whether we hit a natural endpoint in the near future. I have one more task to do before I go home.)
MEL-L1: (I wanted to, before we left, set a date/time for the next interview -- the first "real storytelling" interview -- and settle on the theme we want to start out on)
MEL-L1: MEL nods
LYNN 1: I am done spewing for the moment. If you have questions I'm happy to answer them (and I may wind up spewing some more)
MEL-L1: I have questions, they are logistics questions.
MEL-L1: So the first part is: this transcript (plus the google doc) -- what would need to happen before you'd be comfortable creative-commons-licensing it?
MEL-L1: It is, I realize, insanely messy. And there are a ton of typos to clean up in the transcription google docs part. (And I can do that -- tonight -- and send the "this is what I think it actually is" version to you if you want.)
MEL-L1: If it's any comfort, Rob's transcript is equally nuts.
LYNN 1: I would like to reread it, but I am pretty comfortable with the fact that I knew it was going public, so if I didn't get to read it, I'd probably still be OK.
MEL-L1: Gotcha.
MEL-L1: Well, you have access to it. :)
MEL-L1: The part that most people will see is *not* this transcript -- they'll see a cleaner, shorter, more sensical version
MEL-L1: like the 3-page summary, with grammar that makes sense
MEL-L1: but in the experiment of "open research" I am making the raw stuff available too
LYNN 1: I would potentially like to have the parentheticals potentially removed, and I'd like to have a convention for what is transcribed vs. side chat for next time.
LYNN 1: For this time, I propose: you do whatever cleaning you think is appropriate, and then you give me a week, and then it can be released.
LYNN 1: Does that work?
LYNN 1: The convention about side chat is just to make the next round of cleaning easier.
MEL-L1: MEL nods
MEL-L1: ok, so i will do this part of the legal-thingies now:
MEL-L1: MEL hereby irrevocably transfers and assigns to Lynn Stein in perpetuity, all right (whether now known or hereinafter invented), title, and interest, throughout the world, including any copyrights and renewals or extensions thereto, in the attached transcript of the interview recorded between us on January 28, 2014 over Skype.
LYNN 1: I don't think I said anything problematic in parentheticals, but I think it doesn't add to the transcript....
MEL-L1: (It's okay if it doesn't add to the transcript -- part of the raw data is actually showing how much is "not data" that happens in research)
LYNN 1: rightS?
MEL-L1: (Rob's transcript is at least half "not-data")
LYNN 1: If I'm getting good stuff, I'd like the plural version :)
MEL-L1: Ok, ok.
MEL-L1: MEL hereby irrevocably transfers and assigns to Dr. LYNN, PhD in perpetuity, all rights (whether now known or hereinafter invented), title, and interest, throughout the world, including any copyrights and renewals or extensions thereto, in the attached transcript of the interview recorded between us on January 28, 2014 over Skype.
MEL-L1: :P
MEL-L1: (read out loud in a very herald-with-trumpet-announcing voice)
LYNN 1: And I'm OK with the parentheticals but still maybe want a convention for [sneeze] or whatever unpresentable things I might throw in :)
MEL-L1: MEL chuckles
LYNN 1: Oh, I heard the trumpet all right.
LYNN 1: :)
MEL-L1: Ok. So I'll take a first pass at the transcript tonight like you said, send it to you, and we'll go for open-licensing it in a week
MEL-L1: (and for that, I'll just email you the boilerplate "this is creative commons now!" text that you can just reply-all back to me whenever)
MEL-L1: (thank you)
LYNN 1: Yup -- .That sounds great.
LYNN 1: For next session, 25 Feb?
MEL-L1: time?
LYNN 1: 4p or later
MEL-L1: that's a wednesday -- that works great, i get out of class at 4:30pm
LYNN 1: This time, as all times in my life, is subject to change, but I will make reasonable effort to preserve it. It's waaaay past event horizon.
MEL-L1: MEL grins
LYNN 1: And on my calendar it is a Tuesday.
MEL-L1: ...wait
MEL-L1: ...year
MEL-L1: ...2014
MEL-L1: ...right
MEL-L1: Right.
LYNN 1: I could possibly do the Wednesday, but it would have to be on the 26th :)
MEL-L1: I can do the 25th (Tues) at -- 4:30?
MEL-L1: your chat medium of choice. i have google, AIM, IRC, you name it... but not a mac
LYNN 1: Sure.
LYNN 1: Penciling in right now.
MEL-L1: Ok. 4:30-6pm on the 25th.
MEL-L1: same.
MEL-L1: and in terms of what to focus on -- since we've figured out how the lynn storytelling dynamic works (text! chat!)
LYNN 1: Yup -- Thanks. This is easier for me to be more natural, because i don't feel as much like I'm going through an intermediary.
MEL-L1: MEL nods
MEL-L1: yeah, I know what you mean... i'm super-comfortable in text as well
MEL-L1: what usually happens for the storytelling sessions is that I'll have the short (3pg) versions of the stories of some of the other faculty
MEL-L1: and ask you to choose and read one of them before you start telling your own story
MEL-L1: (which means you'll get some time at the beginning to skim that, if you want to read during the interview time instead of before it -- but you can also read in advance if you want to)
MEL-L1: and then, having read that other person's story, then we'll just jump straight into lynn storytelling
MEL-L1: with mel asking questions and making comments as we go
MEL-L1: the idea is that the other person's story might remind/inspire you somehow, but it doesn't have to (you could, hypothetically, totally ignore it)
LYNN 1: sounds like it will be interesting.
MEL-L1: MEL crosses fingers
MEL-L1: if you want to have something in mind as a starting point, delving deeper into the "teaching uocd the first time" case study might be a good one
MEL-L1: or you can choose to go in a different direction either now or later or when you're storytelling in feb
MEL-L1: but if you want me to dig up documents, etc. for you I can totally do that, just let me know.
MEL-L1: (totally optional.)
MEL-L1: ...and that's all I had, really.
MEL-L1: </firehose>
MEL-L1: questions, comments, thoughts, lynn-ness?
MEL-L1: (thank you for being my dissertation partner-year partner, btw -- *so* appreciate all the flexibility here, and totally taking advantage of Olin faculty abilities to do that)
LYNN 1: If you can remind me about the session and about the documents the week before, it increases the probability that i'll spend 10 minutes scrounging. (Basically, anything I can put my hands on easily will be found in that time, and anything I can't find then isn't worth the time it will take to locate.)
MEL-L1: (I suspect I will be less "WOOO PARTNER YEAR WOOO" with the Berea faculty but we shall see :))
MEL-L1: roger, autoreminder is on the list of "things to do"
LYNN 1: And this was definitely fun -- I'm glad to do it.
MEL-L1: whoo. thank you, lynn.
LYNN 1: I appreciate your flexibility in switching modes, too.
MEL-L1: I am totally improv-Mel
MEL-L1: i think being flexible is fun :) scripts are useful but boring
MEL-L1: anything else on your side?
LYNN 1:  -- but will this require an update in your IRB approval? :), I hope!
LYNN 1: I'm all set.
MEL-L1: I don't think it'll require an IRB update, but I will double-check.
MEL-L1: It certainly doesn't "increase the risk"
MEL-L1: ...which means I feel fine doing it
MEL-L1: (and technically this is still "over skype")
LYNN 1: True. Take care, Mel, and I'll talk to you soon.
MEL-L1: Thanks, Lynn. See you soon.
MEL-L1: <EOF>
