LYNN 2: Hi, Mel. I'm ready-ish when you are
MEL-L2: Me too! Let me share the prompt document with you and then explain what we're doing today.
LYNN 2: ok
MEL-L2: https://docs.google.com/document/d/12du04AdRieq3zHbLqYGR3gf4QtLCWgCSFiSMcvOWHR8/edit
The second narrative session has a different prompt from the totally open-ended one we had the first time. As you can see, you're now reading your own words, remixed a bit and then popped out back to you. With a few annotations to get us started (which you can check out, or totally ignore). 
To be honest, I'm not entirely sure how this will work with a chat... usually Rob/Jon/whoever is on the phone talking and looking at the document simultaneously
LYNN 2: i am looking at both the chat and the document :)
MEL-L2: But we could, if you like, jump into the google doc and start having our conversation right in there, below each text chunk -- or we could talk here and keep the document open in another window.
Ah. :)
LYNN 2: either is fine. let's try here until that becomes problematic?
MEL-L2: Ok, I'm looking at both as well so -- yup, no problem.
LYNN 2: (yay multitasking)
MEL-L2: Basically, the next 60-90 minutes will be looking at what we've got here and then seeing what thoughts it brings to mind.
LYNN 2: [You wrote a comment that said] Were there others before Ben arrived?
LYNN 2: Yup.
MEL-L2: Other stories it reminds you of (regarding "design" becoming a "thing" at Olin), or "hm, that's an interesting phrasing I used," or... use it as a springboard, pretty much.
LYNN 2: The first design faculty member was Dan Frey, who was hired before I was/started at the same time as I did.
He left halfway through the first real year (Jan 2003) to go back to MIT.
Remind me again what you're looking at/for/interested in generally?
MEL-L2: Well, I'm looking at engineering/technology faculty telling stories about a curriculum revision. (that happens to be centered on design)
LYNN 2: k....that provides context. Dan was interested in doing some things similar to what we wound up with.
MEL-L2: It might help to say that I'm *not* interested in "history" -- if I wanted exact dates, names, places, etc. of "what really happened" I would be spending a lot more time in the archives.
LYNN 2: He had ME background from MIT, as does Ben. He was responsible for some of Olin's bold goals and some of our thinking.
MEL-L2: I'm using the curriculum revision narratives as a place to explore how professors make sense of... well, learning. Ways of looking at faculty-as-learners. Not sure if that's helpful.
LYNN 2: He also had *very* strong opinions, and very little tolerance for things he thought were obviously wrong.
MEL-L2: MEL chuckles
LYNN 2: He was the one who was supposed to lead the development of the Sophomore Design Project (which became UOCD). But he left in Jan '03, which was before the SDP ran.
Jill Crisman and I took some leadership of it for the semester, then Ben came and he really ran with it (along with Chris Heape).
MEL-L2: Was that a sudden/unexpected thing?
LYNN 2: (Chris = visiting faculty member from Denmark -- not sure I can reconstruct which institution, but serious design bkgd -- had a big influence as well.)
Dan's leaving? He'd been frustrated, so it wasn't a total shock, but it was definitely unexpected.
I don't know how much it was his leaving vs MIT's recruiting him, though.
MEL-L2: halfway through the year? that sounds unusual.
LYNN 2: It did cause some significant upheaval (in various ways), not least because we had this big course in the 4th semester that was supposed to tie together the first half of the curriculum, and now the person leading it wasn't around.
I'm reading the document and looking at your comments, and kind-of want to run through a bunch of them before diving too deeply....but you can tell me otherwise, or we can come back.
MEL-L2: Go for it. If it's easier, we can type right in the comments as well; your preference.
LYNN 2: Either way. Do you have a preference?
MEL-L2: Nah.
LYNN 2: I think this is better for conversation, but that might be better for direct response.
[Mel had written] Why is this important? (Is it?)
MEL-L2: I'm going all poststructuralist and intertextual anyway, so I'll have to find a way through the tangle regardless. :) There's no strict format.
LYNN 2: It's not generally important, but it is (angel) a bit of contextualizing for my perspective and (beer) an important identity statement for me, much as I sometimes like to disavow it. No question that the experience shaped me in various ways.
[Mel had written] This seemed like an important statement. :)
MEL-L2: MEL laughs. The ( a ) and ( b ) markers show up as emoticons in skype, and you now have an angel and a beer in the middle of your statements. Let this be shown for the record and the amusement of future generations. ;)
LYNN 2: Awesome!
Y'know, the bit about being here before Rob and Jon is important in a few ways. The experiences of that year were significant for me personally, and I think they were significant for the college.
Mark likes to talk about how his cohort arrived and said "show us the curriculum", and we had nothing to show.
MEL-L2: (I might not even have noticed/marked it if it weren't for Jon's narrative session -- when he was reviewing his transcript, he realized that it was super important for him to say he was there "in the beginning," every time he introduced himself to anyone. And then I thought "but Lynn came even earlier!")
LYNN 2: On some level, he's right. We certainly didn't have a curriculum.
(The first curriculum we had was the one written by the CDMB in Jan-March 2002, about which more in a minute.) But we had been wresting for a year before they got there.
MEL-L2: MEL nods.
LYNN 2: I don't know how effective the wrestling was. Certainly there wasn't a lot of consensus. Maybe we made no progress at all.
But I certainly feel like we did, even if the progress was mostly the "storming" phase of teamwork. (Forming, storming, norming, performing....)
And when the second faculty cohort came in, they went through a bunch of the things that we did, but faster.
Maybe they were better students, or more consensus-oriented, or more productive. Certainly they were under more pressure to get things done (we all were, then).
But I'm not as sure as many of them are that the first year had no impact on what happened the second year.
MEL-L2: Well, also -- they got to learn from what you did. Even a frankenstein draft that didn't work was still a draft.
LYNN 2: (Then again, there was a year before I arrived, when David and Sherra Kerns, Rick, Steve, Duncan, Charlie, Rod, Joanne, ... were around.
Probably not a lot of curricular creation, but maybe a lot of important ground-laying that we benefitted from.)
Well, it wasn't a draft....it was lots of dissociated body parts :)
MEL-L2: (you say "cohorts" as if the faculty were in... graduating classes, sort of -- did you folks clump together like that, with a first-cohort / second-cohort separation?)
LYNN 2: But it was also the partners, and if they were anyone's creation (other than their own, and they did create themselves), they were Charlie's and Duncan's and ours.
MEL-L2: Ground-laying both literally and figuratively :)
LYNN 2: Well, those of us who were there the first year did know we'd been there longer and been through some stuff that the second cohort hadn't.
First cohort: Dan Frey, me, John Bourne, Steve Holt, Joanne Pratt, Hillary Berbeco, Diana Dabby, Brian Storey, and a bit of Jim Propp. Michael Moody came as a visitor in the (?second?) half of that year as well, but he didn't join up until later.
MEL-L2: ...wow. Those names sure bring back memories. Well, some of them. I never met Dan, or Jim, or I think Hillary. But the others -- huh. *nolstagia
(you keep writing and erasing something and I'm curious what you're going to say)
LYNN 2: Second cohort: Mark Somerville, Jon Stolk, Rob Martello, Helen Donis-Keller, Mike Moody, Gill Pratt, Ben Linder, Steve Schiffman (? he sort-of eased his way in over a period), and I feel like I'm forgetting someone(s)....but the #s are about right. (I think it was 8 each year.)
Not erasing, just thinking about who was part of the cohort.
MEL-L2: Some of these being a little more familiar than others -- Steve was at Babson right next door, Dr. M had been visiting the year prior, etc.
LYNN 2: BTW, Dan Frey was the one responsible for the blue foam towers.
MEL-L2: Oh! Huh. I don't think anyone knows that any more. :) (students, I mean)
LYNN 2: Yeah....we knew we had to split the students from the parents -- that was the primary intent -- and then he pushed hard to do something outrageous/big splashy failure.
MEL-L2: Ooh! So -- I mean, I'd say that's very... Olin-ish design, not just in terms of "cultural fit for Olin" but "I could see someone doing UOCD on CW and coming up with that."
LYNN 2: I had a very hard time with Dan (and perhaps it was mutual), but in retrospect I'm very grateful for things he did and things I learned as a result of working with hi.
Yeah.....not quite how it happened, but a nice rational reconstruction :)
MEL-L2: Oh, of course. We usually try to make memories make sense in retrospect, and all that.
LYNN 2: Charlie and Duncan had this plan that, as I recall, involved a lot of talking heads, and some of the faculty said, "we can't do that with the students" 
We knew we had to separate them. Parents could get talking heads. But what to do with the students?
Dan may well have been UOCD-ing (ME design thinker from MIT, remember). I was definitely seat-of-the-pants-ing.
But the group pushed to do this, and of course you know the rest.
So that's the kind of thing that pre-dates Rob and Jon.
MEL-L2: UOCD was... a thing at MIT ME (grad school)?
LYNN 2: But the CDMB thing, that was Mark and Rob and Jon and Joanne and Brian.
MEL-L2: (Is this some sort of Woodie Flowers effect?)
LYNN 2: And that is really where the formal curricular bits begin.
MEL-L2: CDMB = curriculum... design... model... boat?
LYNN 2: (Yes to the Woodie question. Dan was also a protege of his.)
Curricular Decision Making Board.
Oh, Steve S. was a consultant to the CDMB.
MEL-L2: Oh! Okay. So -- ahhhhh. Now the strong Woodie connections to Olin make more sense; I always wondered why people said he was so influential when he didn't seem to be around all that much, but if his two students shaped so much of Olin's design-ness, totally.
LYNN 2: The name came from something they'd done at Babson, where they empowered a curriculum committee to actually make decisions.
You probably vaguely remember something to that effect in the Babson case study from the summer institute :)
Yes to the Woodie bit. He was around a tiny bit in the beginning, and he said things the administration listened to (well, we all did), but a big piece of his influence was via Dan and Ben. I think he really had Rick/Dave/Sherra's ears, though, and Dave was Provost back then.....
[Mel had written] In theory? Or in practice? ;)
LYNN 2: Probably more in theory, but much more equal than in other engineering curricula. (Look at the real estate given to each corner of the triangle....)
[Mel had written] There seems to be a distinction between the usages of the word "design" here -- one is human centered, as opposed to... non-human-centered? (I know, I know, I'm pushing a bit here.)
LYNN 2: Well, if you are doing hands-on engineering, it's hard not to do some design. There's a version of engineering that is mostly about engineering science, that has forgotten about design, and we knew very early that that wasn't us.
(Have you read the HBS case study I co-authored? I can send it to you if not.)
But engineering design is sometimes very much about the technology.
MEL-L2: You co-authored an HBS case study? I haven't read it but would love to.
LYNN 2: At Olin, we teach some courses sort-of like that. The word design is in their titles, but they're not what we'd call design courses at Olin
MEL-L2: MEL is finding the part in the first transcript where you gave an (extensive) definition of the (many) types of design
LYNN 2: Software Design, Mechanical Design....Not sure whether Circuits or VLSI include the word "design" in their titles at Olin, but they often do elsewhere. Not human-centered at all.
I worked on a big design project at the MIT AI lab called "the intelligent room". It was classic "I've got a hammer, gotta find me some nails" tech-centered design.
MEL-L2: (I found it! I pasted it into the document. The document is now much longer.)
MEL reads up
MEL laughs at the hammer image
LYNN 2: We were exploring what might be possible with just-barely-emerging technology. We were making up scenarios in which the tech would be useful (ideally to our funders :) ), rather than actually exploring what real people really would do.
MEL-L2: Oh, like the Media Lab in a different building.
LYNN 2: Anyway, that was anything *but* human-centered design. *much* less interested in use than the Media Lab, which at its best is actually quite attentive to humans :)
[You wrote a comment asking] Do new faculty enculturate into this? (Or do you select for those who know it when they arrive?)
We've just changed the way we are doing faculty search, so I'll answer for the past.
We had some faculty members who found this very hard.
We had others who figured it out by doing (notably Mark and Jon and to some extent me).
But folks who were in/near design kind-of had to come in with some clue after the first few years -- Ozgur, Lawrence -- while folks who were very far from design didn't have that obligation.
I think we're hoping in the new world that more folks will come in with more understanding of this.
We've also put some new hires (Paul, Jean Huang though not her first year, hopefully folks we're hiring now) through the summer institute as a way of enculturating them.
Oh -- figured out at least one person I forgot from the second faculty cohort: Jill Crisman. Significant design clue, but also was part of that first SDP figure-it-out-as-we-go cohort.
MEL-L2: Jill! Right!
LYNN 2: [You wrote a comment that said] Were these words used in the same sense as they are today?
Not sure. Some probably. (Prototype, pilot, design. Not sketch.)
[Mel had written] This is an intriguing phrasing/statement to me, and I'd love to hear more of your thoughts on that.
LYNN 2: Oh, that's me. I have no actual training as an engineer. None.
Rob has more engineering degrees than I do.
(CS comes out of applied math or EE, generally. All of my education was in AM-derived CS departments, and in the AM/interdisciplinary-cognitive-science parts of those.
Plus I'm a liberal arts baby and an applied philosopher at heart.)
MEL-L2: You do a good job of the pretending. :)
LYNN 2: But all of my faculty career has been spent in schools of engineering, so I like to think I can speak engineering as a second language, at least. Occasionally my accent shows :)
MEL-L2: And you're half the E:C program. You teach engineering classes all the time, or at least if we're calling E:C an engineering program you do. (Disciplinary boundaries are weird!)
Ooh, you have an accent?
LYNN 2: 1/3 of the E:C program now, and that's only if you don't count the horde of adjuncts we've had for most of the time I've been here....and the question of whether CS is science or engineering (or neither) is one we don't have time for now :)
MEL-L2: I mean, the "I am Lynn! I am INTERDISCIPLINARY!" shows a lot, but that's (to me) an interdisciplinary accent, not an "I am not a real engineer!" accent
MEL nods, right, right, distractomel (thank you)
LYNN 2: Ah, but I am not a real engineer. I don't do continuous math (if I can help it, and I barely remember what I once knew). I have almost no physics background. There are all sorts of really basic ME and EE things I haven't the first clue about. I really lack some basic stuff that engineers are supposed to know.
I just avoid it, though, and when teaching ModSim ask "so, explain to me what you are trying to do here" a lot and hope that the students figure out what they're about before I run out of probing questions to ask :)
LYNN 2: [You wrote a comment that said] When and how did this process of seeing the connections happen?
I am not sure I understand the reference here
MEL-L2: MEL looks
LYNN 2: Skipping ahead because I multitask :)
Chapter 2: _*()&^&^, our design prof is leaving….we're hiring someone else, but really shouldn't we plan this already?
MEL-L2: Oh, that's from when you said "I don’t think I saw all of the connections [when I first arrived at Olin that] I see now." You were talking about the connections between "making curriculum" and "doing design"
LYNN 2: That was Dan Frey.
MEL-L2: (no worries, we can multithread)
LYNN 2: Ah, back to this: [Mel had written] When and how did this process of seeing the connections happen?
MEL-L2: or more specifically, the way I interpreted that phrase was "I didn't realize that making curriculum was actually a design process, just like HCI was, and some other stuff" (but that's my reading of it)
LYNN 2: Well, to be fair, I did know something about looking at students when I was teaching. I've known that for a very long time. Designing curriculum that met students where they were, thinking about where I wanted them to get to, etc.
But that's a far cry from user-centered curriculum design.
Mark and Ben and some others <looks for citation> wrote a paper about this (or maybe did a special session at FIE).
MEL-L2: those... sound a lot like user-centered curriculum design statements to me.
LYNN 2: For me, I got that framing of what we were doing from Mark.
MEL-L2: not descriptive of all of it, for sure. but certainly aligned.
LYNN 2: And it was definitely one of those "doh! of *course* that is what we are doing" moments
http://fie-conference.org/fie2006/papers/1660.pdf
MEL-L2: MEL spawns another thread to read
LYNN 2: BTW, interesting things happen when you google: somerville user centered approach to curriculum design. and not entirely what you'd expect.
MEL-L2: MEL does exactly that and starts laughing. In a parallel universe, where Mark Somerville is born female...
LYNN 2: Yup.
LYNN 2: View Educator Copy
Cases
Engineering a Renaissance: The Launch of the Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
Lee Fleming; LYNN; Thomas D. Perry IV
Publication Date Oct 25, 2007, Revision Date Mar 31, 2009
while I'm citing :)
https://cb.hbsp.harvard.edu/cbmp/product/608087-PDF-ENG
[Mel had written] feel like there's a longer story behind these two words.
LYNN 2: Yeah; I'm not really the deferring type :)
[Mel had written] It’s the only field I worked in where the people were obvious.
LYNN 2: Well, what I'd done research-wise (and remember, before I came to Olin, if it was education it couldn't have been "a field I worked in" or Real Work(TM)) was:
- logics of commonsense knowledge, which was a "competence theory"[*] of human reasoning
- programming languages (esp. programming language semantics)
- cognitive architectures for robots
- philosophy of computer science
MEL-L2: (That FIE paper by Somerville et al looks suspiciously like Collaboratory Lite, btw)
LYNN 2: - human-computer interaction
So yeah, HCI was "the only field I worked in where the people were obvious"
[*] See Chomsky, competence theory of human language.
MEL-L2: OH! That was referring to HCI, not curriculum design!
LYNN 2: Collaboratory Lite: Yeah, that's about when we were realizing we had stuff to say to the rest of the world.
MEL-L2: Oh, "linguistic competence" is the word for that idea -- cool! (wikipedia page has just been read)
LYNN 2: "people were obvious" -- maybe you're right, and maybe I was referring to curriculum design. See above discussion of hammers and nails.
MEL-L2: hm, actually -- in the context, I'm thinking it might have been curriculum design. because: " In a lot of ways, curriculum design experience was the most human-centered of all the design I had done, even though I was designing human-computer interfaces. It’s the only field I worked in where the people were obvious."
LYNN 2: Even on the more make-a-tool-people-want side of my HCI work -- semantic web and moreso haystack -- there was still a real technology focus
MEL-L2: ...no, really, it could be both HCI or curriculum design. Oh well. Hard to tell in the text, now.
mm, yeah, MIT cultural values I'm guessing.
LYNN 2: semantic web was not a hammer looking for nails, bc we knew we had a big honking nail right there, but haystack was for people without being in any real way human-centered.
Mark Ackerman (who I think was Sean Munson's doctoral advisor in a later life) visited Haystack and tried to get us to think about actual humans, and he had some limited effect, but I really don't think I fully appreciated what he was trying to do until somewhat later.
[Mel had written] mm, yeah, MIT cultural values I'm guessing.
That. So I think I've hit all of your comments....What if anything would you like to revisit?
MEL-L2: whoo. Well. MEL blinks a little bit. I'd like to step out to a bit of a meta level and look at everything we've got (in the document, in this chat) as data
LYNN 2: <Lynn wonders idly how this compares with the voice chats you've been doing with others.>
MEL-L2: with the question being "does this help us think of Lynn -- or (engineering-ish) faculty in general -- as a learner?" (vague question, I know)
so, for instance, some things I've noticed
1) you're very precise about getting details right and will take extra time to look stuff up (these are all Lynn things that I'm fascinated/amused by, not generalizable to all engr fac ever, etc etc)
2) going along with the first pattern, you cite external references a lot (a form of precision, maybe).
you're the *only* faculty narrator who has cited *anything* (and in this convo alone, you've done it multiple times) although I think that could also be because the text chat format affords it more,
and Jon and Rob being my other two narrators, they tend to do... more of a rambling narrative think-aloud,
whereas you're more like: i will make a *point* here and then another *point* here (or at least that's how I'd characterize)
3) You have a marvelous sense of humor when you write, which I've always appreciated. Also, you're really blunt. The two go together.
LYNN 2: Thank you. I do think this format lends itself to some of these things (citations, multitasking by finding the reference quickly), 
but I think you're right that they're fundamentally the way I think, just exacerbated by the medium. I *am* very precise. I have to watch that sometimes, because it can drive folks nuts, but it is very much a part of who I am.
MEL-L2: (Not sure if these are useful prompts/examples -- this may be the part that works a little easier in voice format, but Rob and Jon both got suuuuuper into the "oh my gosh a thing I'm noticing about myself more now whoa" thing, and it's been super cool) (ok, they seem like useful prompts/examples :))
I love it. It's very... Lynn. And I now have new things to read, and I learned a new phrase today ("linguistic competence").
LYNN 2: I think of it as related to being an academic, but more "oh, I have this disposition, it works well for me as an academic" than something that came about as a result of my professional choices.
MEL-L2: MEL nods
LYNN 2: Oh, if you're going to use competence (in the linguistic sense), you might need to learn a little (early) Chomsky :)
MEL-L2: MEL is just the opposite -- Robin once had to remind me that "some paper by Bruner somewhere" was not a proper citation
LYNN 2: I do think the examples and prompts are helpful. I'm not always precise. Ask Stolk; he'll tell you :)
But I appreciate precision, and I like it when I can do it, because the specific details do often matter :)
MEL-L2: ...says the professor who's spent a lot of time studying language and code
LYNN 2: I do think the examples and prompts are helpful. I don't know that I particularly noticed those things here, but they all ring very true (well, maybe except the humor thing, for which I'll have to take your word; but definitely the bluntness thing!) I feel like I've spent a lot of my life trying to be self-aware.
MEL-L2: the bluntness usually comes in the form of humor, like your chapter titles
LYNN 2: I'm sure there are a lot of things I don't now about myself, of course.
MEL-L2: I think someone else reading your transcript used the adjective "snarky" (in a very positive way, while laughing)
LYNN 2: I also feel like there are things I know about myself that I'm not proud of, or that I might wish were different.
MEL-L2: (it may have been another adjective, I can look it up -- but it was very much in the "a synonym for sarcastically-witty" camp)
MEL-L2: MEL nods.
LYNN 2: But on the whole I feel like I have some sense of where those blindnesses are, and the less-than-helpful traits.
MEL-L2: that's another thing I noticed -- it's not just precision, it's precision coupled with completeness
LYNN 2: I definitely feel like I've grown in all sorts of way s over my career, and I feel like the transcript reflects some of that awareness.
At the same time, it's hard to remember that there was a time when I didn't know some of these things, and it's really easy to back-project an awareness that I didn't actually have at the time.
MEL-L2: well, in the transcript you're also pointing out a lot of "I didn't know/realize X back then" occurrences
LYNN 2: I am also always trying to formulate what, for lack of a better word, I'll call "theories", and to make sense of the world and the phenomena I observe that way.
For example, yesterday I saw an old friend who turns out to have worked with someone I now interact with regularly, and who puzzles me. The old friend and I compared notes, and I was really pleased because I walked away with a new interpretation of the person I work with regularly that seems to explain more of the behavior I observe than any prior theory I've had.
I like being able to make sense of things. Does that make sense? (Apologies for the unintentionally ironic phrasing)
MEL-L2: totally. i mean, what else would you do? (half-joking here, but I do the same thing; it's hard to leave things half-made-sense-of.) (ahaha, ha, ha. ha. punny.)
LYNN 2: Right. I prefer things that work well, but I'll settle for things that fail in predictable ways :)
MEL-L2: so -- huh. the fuzzy frankenstein body parts days of the "we're not sure what curriculum we've got yet" era must have been sending your brain on overtime. (not that it isn't now.) in other words, you're a scientist. :)
LYNN 2: scientist: yes
MEL-L2: jon also talked a lot about liminal spaces (though he didn't use that word) and how much he grows in them and enjoys them, but i think he operates within them in a very different way than you do
LYNN 2: Frustrating: Well, that was a very frustrating period for me for a number of reasons, some of which I'm not sure I am willing to talk about in a transcript that is being recorded, let alone something that might be made public.
Stolk: different, yes.
MEL-L2: MEL nods, understood
LYNN 2: I'm curious about what he had to say (next session, I know :) )
MEL-L2: i got the sense that jon may be more... intuitive, or -- huh. *waves hands around* Like he can float around without having to make sense of things right away, trust the rules fall into place eventually later without needing to work on it now
LYNN 2: I do think I'm a lot about the interstitial (which is, I imagine, roughly the same as Jon's or your liminal), and I think I am generally comfortable there
MEL-L2: whereas i could see you in the same sort of liminal space (or the same liminal space, really) going "ok. Hypothesis A is that if I do X, then Y will happen. Let me try X. Okay, Y! Great. Hypothesis B is..."
LYNN 2: Maybe. I don't think I have a good overall theory of Jon :)
MEL-L2: Jon used the word "messy space." liminal = "quality of ambiguity or disorientation that occurs during transition between two states" (roughly) (that's not a dictionary copy-paste) ...ah, I can see interstitial being equivalent, yep. (I'd heard the word before, but wanted to look it up formally just now just in case. so I googled it.)
oh. out of curiosity (I haven't asked anyone else this, but) do you know your myers-briggs type?
LYNN 2: I think of liminal and interstitial as roughly synonymous, but with different character/association.
MEL-L2: oh, ok? (re: liminal/interstit)
LYNN 2: (There's that precision and completeness :) )
MEL-L2: MEL is ambivert-NFP
LYNN 2: Liminal: at the threshhold. Between, but with a sense of transitional/progressing through. Interstitial: Between; at the joints.
MEL-L2: (who usually presents as introverted, because: deaf == people are energy draining)
LYNN 2: That may be me reading in, of course.
MEL-L2: ...oh, so an implied velocity/temporaryness-of-dislocation vs "here's somewhere I could stay awhile"
LYNN 2: I have done myers-briggs a few times, and I can never remember how I come out without looking it all up. One of the dimensions, I'm right in the middle.
[Mel had written] ...oh, so an implied velocity/temporaryness-of-dislocation vs "here's somewhere I could stay awhile"
LYNN 2: Yeah....Again, not sure whether that's authentic to the words themselves or something I read into them, but that is how I read them.
MEL-L2: fascinating.
LYNN 2: Liminal spaces feel to me by definition transitory (which, as I type it, I realize means "in transit") while interstitial spaces are the gaps between things.
MEL-L2: (I know it's getting late-ish, and wanted to make sure I didn't keep you too late in case you had to be somewhere else -- but this is really cool)
...huh, yeah. I do agree with those definitions. (I'm nodding here behind my computer screen.)
LYNN 2: See, this is the kind of thing I really love. The precision of words.
MEL-L2: I hadn't thought about the difference between the two before, but if I sit down and do it, I agree.
LYNN 2: One of my favorite bits of work has been some consulting I've done with lawyers, because they take words as seriously as I do (though with very different meanings and intentions, in some cases).
MEL-L2: :) is that why it was hard for you to talk on the phone? the massive dictionary search occurring in parallel for each word in each sentence?
LYNN 2: And there's a huge tradition in Jewish thought of a kind of argumentation/analysis that is very much about the details of the words
MEL-L2: hermeneutics?
LYNN 2: No, the phone problem was almost entirely one of transcription. I couldn't let the mis-transcription or imprecision by; I couldn't just ignore it and let it go.
MEL-L2: ahh. which is another precision thing, but not the way I'd thought (see, hypothesis Mel too.)
LYNN 2: Hermeneutics: yes, though that's not among the words I use. (It is entirely correct, of course; that's exactly what I was referring to).
For example: Gematriya. Each letter has a numeric value. A word is therefore a number. (That's why 18 is a special number in Jewish tradition. The word for life has the numeric value 18.) And there's all sorts of word-association-argument-making that uses that fact to say this thing is equal to that thing, ....
MEL-L2: MEL nods vigorously, is reminded of Chinese traditions too
LYNN 2: Or Talmudic argument (basically, encoded oral law that has a millenium or two of commentary on it), which starts with as little a phrase or a word or even a letter or the particular way a particular letter is written in the Bible, and builds the whole of Jewish law out of that.
MEL-L2: I can totally see this being a Lynn thing.
(also, nodding vigorously about Jewish tradition -- which I know is super-important to you -- I definitely see the way I practice as a Catholic to very clearly display the same sort of Mel-patterns as my practice as a scholar, though this has only been clear in the past year-point-five as I've started to practice the Catholicism part.)
LYNN 2: I am far from learned or a scholar in any of those things, but I learned a bit about some of them as a teenager, and I think that kind of making-an-argument-from-almost-nothing is hugely interesting and was hugely formative for me.
MEL-L2: MEL grins
LYNN 2: And maybe the last bit (well, no, there are two) is that in a Jewish argument (here, I mean the scholarly tradition, not just me fighting with my husband :) ) if one person concedes and says "you're right", the other is almost morally obliged to take up the opposite side, just so that the argument can continue. 
It's actually quite a bit like competitive debate: you ought to be able to make a reasoned argument on either side, and also the idea that argument is where interesting ideas happen (and a form of praise, not an attack).
MEL-L2: MEL nods very very very vigorously and enthusiastically
LYNN 2: The other thing is that, in the Talmud, you can't understand any of it until you understand all of it
MEL-L2: part-whole interdependence
LYNN 2: That's not something I really understood until I read a book maybe 20 years ago that stated it very clearly, 
[feels obliged to cite, bc Mel is expecting it: _Swimming in the Sea of Talmud_]
but it is something that I think I understood intuitively.
So how do you learn a body of material with that property? You dive in and swim around and get your bearings, and eventually you've seen enough of it to make some sense of at least the local region.
Very different from the hierarchical organization of knowledge that the Greeks are famous for championing. Very different conception of what knowledge is
MEL-L2: MEL adds book to list (really! is fascinated by this stuff!)
OH YES. well, it reminds me of -- I keep using the Dreyfus model of skill acquisition, where they define "mastery" as (basically) the ability to navigate a complex context
LYNN 2: (All of this is from that book, not original; and BTW the part I'm referencing is all in the introductory material, which is IMHO the best part of the book.)
MEL-L2: and that's not necessarily something you learn linearly/sequentially, there's a global aspect to it (this is me reading into dreyfus)
MEL-L2: MEL nods. and (cognitive) apprenticeships as being spaces where you can pick up that... messy and... 
it's something I heard at Olin a lot, actually -- "learn to be" vs "learn about"
LYNN 2: I read this book in the late 90s, when I was doing some work with Tim Berners-Lee (of web fame), and all of a sudden I understood why Tim and I worked so well together. He thinks like that too, which is why hypertext and jumping-around and not-being-able-to-linearize were so important to our conversations.
MEL-L2: the swimming-around, flopping out, getting squirted with a water gun and tossed back in :) 
ok, so the poststructural bent of this study is going to work great for you then. 
(I say this half to myself, because I just finished all my lit review explaining "intertextuality" and stuff like that)
LYNN 2: (Also read The Talmud and the Internet at the same time, which may have made some of that point, though on the whole I'd recommend the beginning of Swimming over that one.
MEL-L2: ...Lynn, you should totally do a co-curricular on this someday. although I hear you're busy with a cooking one these days (of which I am a bit jealous)
LYNN 2: But in an ironic and non-linear everything-is-connected kind of way, I discovered that the author of the latter book was married to someone I went to (Jewish text-study) camp with as a teenager.)
MEL-L2: ...whoa.
LYNN 2: I almost did a *class* on this, but I couldn't get Rob to understand what I was getting at. Besides, "free association with Lynn" isn't necessarily a credit-bearing activity :)
MEL-L2: YES IT IS. I MEAN. um. ...all Lynn classes have some component of "free association with Lynn" but yes
LYNN 2: True enough :) I am thinking it might actually be time to close out this free association with Lynn session
MEL-L2: anyway -- when were you thinking about doing this again?
jinx
LYNN 2: (for which I understand you are actually hoping to get a PhD)
MEL-L2: MEL should eat dinner. MEL should get groceries so dinner can be made
LYNN 2: dinner: yes
MEL-L2: yes, someday, the PhD. Someday. Some...day... *wistful look*
LYNN 2: I have some uncertainty in the next week or two of my life.
MEL-L2: This is a ton of excellent data I can totally work with, thank you. And I'll clean the transcript as per usual and email to you for open-licensing and etc.
No worries, I imagine the end of the semester is as always... fun.
LYNN 2: I can book something with you further out, or we can try to be serendipitous.
MEL-L2: Serendipity is fine. I will be around for Commencement and a little after, if it helps. (I think from what I recall of your schedule, it... didn't really help, but.)
LYNN 2: Once we get past mid-May, my schedule *should* be blissfully open for the rest of the month. I am actually trying not to be heavily booked this summer
MEL-L2: MEL gasps! who are you and what have you done with the Lynn?
LYNN 2: June is a bit of a mess (mostly in a good way) because of the summer institute and some scheduled vacation
MEL-L2: (btw, I can be around for the summer institute if you want to continue the research on that)
LYNN 2: but last summer was just *too* painful (never got serious downtime to do some reading and other projects, though I did take some excellent vacation).
MEL-L2: (emily may not be able to make it, but we've talked about the contingency plan of mel doing all the data collection)
MEL-L2: MEL nods in sympathy at busy summer
LYNN 2: I would love to have you at SI if we can make that work. Emily too, or you solo? Never mind. I see you answered. Please ping Sharon as well, bc she is the one with ability to take care of actually making things happen.
MEL-L2: Ok -- yeah, we can definitely make the SI stuff work (and I'll find out about Emily soon) -- have got specific ideas on that depending on how set the curriculum is at present, but I'll emai you and Sharon (unless you want to hash it out real quick now, possibly over audio as that's faster). MEL nods
LYNN 2: Anyway, this summer I'm planning to do some serious reading and general catching up on stuff/exploring new things.
MEL-L2: (y) (beer)
LYNN 2: Would prefer to defer the SI conversation as I think my husband is timing out shortly.
MEL-L2: roger. ok, thanks lynn!
LYNN 2: (He is almost perfect, but not a night person....) Thank you, Mel. This was lots of fun.
MEL-L2: Likewise!
LYNN 2: <smiles at beer>
MEL-L2: Good night, Lynn. You are, as always, totally awesome. Ok, groceries time!
