MEL-L3: Hiya, Lynn. Ready whenever you are.
LYNN 3: just arrived
MEL-L3: Hi! https://docs.google.com/document/d/19za7aLWZweRAxFxKHCGWi6L3uxqUgq-NClhhVOnEIFU/edit is this round's prompt. There's a lot of it (which I debated about), but I know you're a fast reader so I figured we could navigate our way through. :)
LYNN 3: ok. should i just start reading and commenting, then?
MEL-L3: Yep.
LYNN 3: can i correct typos (mine)? :)
MEL-L3: There are three chunks -- two shorter ones (1-page) and the longer one on HOW DESIGN CAME TO OLIN
MEL-L3: (sure thing.)
MEL-L3: And you can type in here, or comment on the document itself; whatever you feel more comfy with. Last time we ended up mostly in here, because it was more conversational.
LYNN 3: OK....plenty to unpack in the beginning, but I'll leave that until I have a broader picture.  I just read Jon's first bit, and it prompts an immediate response: I had a design background, but it was the classic engineer "I have a hammer, looking for nails" kind of design background. I can't remember whether we discussed that.
MEL-L3: Not yet, no.
LYNN 3: Towards the end of my time at MIT, I started to get a bit more exposure to user-centered perspectives and the edges of the kind of design we do at Olin. It resonated with other things i knew from cognitive science, etc., as well as some important themes in AI/philosophy of mind, so it was pretty resonant, but it was also very different from some of the first HCI projects I was involved with. As a result, I think I was a little better prepared for what we found/did in design at Olin, but not nearly so far along as the phrase "design background" might imply.
MEL-L3: (Isn't the UOCD approach also a sort of hammer that goes looking for nails? Maybe a different, more metacognitive hammer, but still.)
LYNN 3: Here's a concrete example:  I was involved in a project called "the intelligent room".  We were trying to instrument a space to be a bit like the (Star Trek) holodeck. Why?  Because we thought it would be cool. Users?  We made up some scenarios that seemed like this could be a good idea. Did we ever talk to anyone who actually did any of the things we proposed to improve?  Are you kidding?
MEL-L3: MEL chuckles
LYNN 3: Whereas UOCD starts from the premise that you need to understand the users and their context/needs (hence "user-centered") There are a bunch of related tools in HCI -- contextual inquiry, usability testing -- that we never even considered as a part of the intelligent room project.
Anyway, I've finished reading the identity chunk.  Happy to discuss further, or I can go on to the next chunk.
MEL-L3: Let's move on, and then circle back to unpack if we have time later.
LYNN 3: Ah...Jon and I are having a misunderstanding in the beginning chunk of this.
MEL-L3: (It sounded like there was stuff to unpack, but I wonder if it'll be more interestingly tangled up with the threads after you have more of the document loaded into your mental RAM.) 
Yeah, I was thinking he may not have caught the humor... oh, wait -- that's a later part where he doesn't catch the humor, this is different. Yes.
LYNN 3: I meant specifically that we *didn't* have design in the middle of the triangle.  "If you didn’t hear design in that picture, that is not a coincidence", i.e., you didn't hear it because we didn't have it there. "Given what we know now, we can say [that] it makes sense design would be in the middle of that…" but it wasn't, then. 
Ah....it looks like maybe you tried to say that to Jon :) I think Jon and I are in radical agreement.  Design wasn't there.  The hole (where design eventually went) might have been, but we were too oblivious to see it. Please let Jon know that :)
MEL-L3: Will do. There's this interesting conceptual split I'm hearing from all three of you -- the split between design "actually being there" and people being conscious of it and using language to describe it.
LYNN 3: Rob says:  "we came to design surprisingly late..." and he is right. I think it wasn't there.  I think it needed to be there.  It was the thing that eventually made it all hang together.  But we didn't have it, and we didn't know we needed it.  Maybe, just maybe, Dan Frey knew.  And maybe Ben saw it.  But the rest of us...no.
MEL-L3: The idea that it's possible for something to preeexist without people knowing about it (as if it were a buried treasure simply being overlooked) as opposed to... not existing before a community was conscious of it. A variant of "if a tree falls in the forest and nobody hears it, does it make a sound?"
LYNN 3: We did have the SDP placeholder, so I guess we at least paid lip service to it. I don't think we conceived of the ICBs as design per se. We thought that was open-ended hands-on project-based learning.
MEL-L3: ...which wasn't the "old" definition of design?
LYNN 3: SDP was where the design (and not, at that time, user-centered design) was going to be. Well, there's design as in creating something that doesn't previously exist, especially if it is not from a fully canned recipe. Some of that might be, e.g., parameter tweaking. So sure, that kind of design. And leaving room for student creativity (e.g., one of the golf ball cannons from the partner year module was hot pink), yeah, that kind of design. And even art in engineering, a bit.
MEL-L3: I remember the cohort that was specifically about art and engineering. Mobile sculptures or something.
LYNN 3: But design as solving an ill-specified problem first by problem setting, no not that.  That was going to happen in SDP.
MEL-L3: Ahhh, okay. Gotcha. So many definitions of design.
LYNN 3: And SDP wasn't originally user-centered. That happened when Dan left and Ben came. (Dan might have made it user-centered; we never got to figure that out.) So when I talk about design not being there, partly I'm saying that our understanding of design was evolving. 
We definitely knew we wanted the students-make-choices and it's-ok-to-be-artsy kinds of design.  We *had* to have the parameter tweaking kind (we are engineers after all :) ).  And we had a clue that eventually we'd want the problem setting kind (hence SDP).  But we didn't really understand what that would (come to) imply.
This seems completely resonant with what I read in Jon and Rob's quotes in this section.
MEL-L3: MEL nods and agrees re: resonant
LYNN 3: "If you looked at those early documents, you would see language that maybe was more typical of traditional engineering design and less typical of the kind of user-centered design that feels like it is more at the heart of Olin."
MEL-L3: (On the "it's ok to be artsy" front, I wonder how much this element of "what design could mean" was tied into the "renaissance engineer," "engineering as a liberal art," and "yay 50% women" ideas, but perhaps that's a side-track.) 
MEL-L3: (And I have to keep reminding myself that you're seeing Rob and Jon's comments for the first time -- I've been reading all three of your transcripts for so long that they all weave together for me by default.)
LYNN 3: Yes to all of the parenthetical, with the caveat that the gender balance thing came a little later than some of the others (but still before me -- it was Sherra's contribution).
LYNN 3: first parenthtical :)
LYNN 3: Moving on to the third chunk
MEL-L3: Oh, huh -- I'd never concieved of Olin without the gender balance as a big idea. So that did exist at some, brief point. Weeeeeird.
MEL-L3: MEL stops interrupting you
LYNN 3: Yup.  Predated all of us.  Sherra made a point of it when she joined.  Probably had to work hard to convince the board.
LYNN 3: \me wishes she wouldn't stop
LYNN 3: \me also realizes that she does not know the syntax for this app :)
LYNN 3: In the third chunk:
LYNN 3: This:
LYNN 3: If you looked at those early documents, you would see language that maybe was more typical of traditional engineering design and less typical of the kind of user-centered design that feels like it is more at the heart of Olin.
MEL-L3: (it's a /me rather than \me for the record)
LYNN 3: not that.
LYNN 3: THIS: Lynn: I don’t think I saw all of the connections I see now.  In a lot of ways, curriculum design experience was the most human-centered of all the design I had done, even though I was designing human-computer interfaces. It’s the only field I worked in where the people were obvious.
LYNN 3: The HCI work I did at MIT eventually got a bit closer to user-centered-ness, but mostly my user-centered experience came from ed/curriculum, not from science
LYNN 3: Lynn: Chapter 1:  We need a design experience in the fourth semester.  <several ideas of what this could be>
LYNN 3: ....probably came from Dan Frey.
MEL-L3: (Mel is interpreting this as "the correct quote I am talking about is the one that begins 'I don't think I saw all of the connections I see now,' please disregard the one that begins 'If you looked at those early documents,' because I did not intend to talk about that one.")
MEL-L3: (yay, tradeoffs of long-distance text-chat conversations)
LYNN 3: But then he left, so we (substantially Jill Crisman and I) tried to do something, flailed around, and were saved by Ben and eventually Chris Heape.
MEL-L3: Huh. So, Jon has an interesting note on Dan Frey, which you may not have read down to yet -- but you will in a moment :)
LYNN 3: LYNN nods in acknowledgement of Mel's understanding of the intended correction.
LYNN 3: Jon: What Lynn said is exactly what I remember. The early language, from my perspective, was not a user-centered design in the way that we currently define it. [It] was much more of a "we want them to design, fabricate and test some system." So it could be software or hardware but the focus was on the system and not the people like UOCD has of course turned into.
MEL-L3: MEL fistpumps in triumph of acknowledged interpretation
LYNN 3: Yes.  With the one additional caveat that I think we had a bit of problem setting here.
MEL-L3: Oh? (re: problem setting)
LYNN 3: Not as much as we wound up with (a whole course on it :) ), but definitely wanted some ambiguity there. You know the Woodie Flowers/Bill Mitchell ME and architecture student story (ambiguous design brief)?
MEL-L3: Er... nope. MEL-L3: I don't know who Bill Mitchell is, but I'm googling.
LYNN 3: former dean of architecture at MIT, but this story precedes that. LYNN 3: it was a seminal story for Olin, so I'll tell it quickly.  Better to hear it directly from Woodie sometime.
MEL-L3: MEL nods.
LYNN 3: Woodie and Bill were younger in the story, so just an ME prof and an architecture prof teaching a joint course with students from each background.  First assignment involved a deliberately underspecified design brief.  MEs come back and ask lots of detailed questions about what is wanted, exactly how things should be... architecture students come back and say "we think this is not what you really want.  we think you want ...."
MEL-L3: MEL reading http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_J._Mitchell with great swiftness
MEL-L3: Ha!
LYNN 3: Some of the things we said early on:  We don't want to educate MIT students.  MIT already does that well.(that has nothing to do wiht the Woodie/Bill story, just that it was a mantra we had in the early days.)
LYNN 3: (the next mantra is related)
LYNN 3: We *do* want to educate engineering students who say what the architecture students in the Woodie/Bill story said.
LYNN 3: There were a few other mantras as well.
MEL-L3: MEL nods -- that first mantra (or the results from it) ended up being key to my college choice, btw, because MIT is where my family really wanted me to go... and if Olin had been trying to imitate the MIT education (which is awesome but in a different way) I wouldn't have ended up at Olin.
LYNN 3: Bottom line:  for me, and I think for many of us early on, this was important to our understanding of how Olin students would be different.  So problem setting was always important.
MEL-L3: ...ooh. So this Woodie/Bill story was something all the founding faculty knew and used as a common reference?
LYNN 3: Well, I think of it that way, but who knows whether I've just imagined that everyone else knew it.
MEL-L3: I could ask Jon/Rob/etc if it rings a bell. But I think I've heard the "we don't want to copycat MIT" before, certainly. Just not with the "and part of what that means is that Olin students should answer like the MIT architects and not the MIT engineers."
LYNN 3: I *do* remember distinctly my absolute joy when my scope team (a few years back) took the design brief they were given and told the company (after a few weeks of needs assessment) that the brief was wrong, and what they really wanted was... :)
MEL-L3: ha! that's wonderful.
LYNN 3: Right....The copycat bit and the architects vs. engineers bit are unrelated, and the MIT-ness of both stories is circumstantial. For me, both were formative and contemporaneous.
LYNN 3: Not to derail this discussion, but looking at the transcript, I find it absolutely fascinating that Jon didn't think of Dan as a design person. I just went and double-checked on the web, because I thought that is exactly where is credentials were, and yup.
MEL-L3: MEL thinks out loud: it's a sort of audacity, being able to go back and tell your customer that they might not be right. if that's a big part of being able to 'do design,' then the confidence to do that must be a pretty big design skill. either confidence that your judgment is right, the process is right, or your judgment using the process is right... or more right than what the customer initially said, anyway.
MEL-L3: MEL hops over to the "Jon on Dan Frey" train of thought
MEL-L3: Yeah, it's fascinating how people seem themselves and others disciplinarily! (And folks like you and Rob probably confuse the heck out of a lot of people.)
MEL-L3: s/seem/see
LYNN 3: LYNN appreciates Mel's out loud thought, and wonders whether some of the pushback we get (Olin students are too entitled; Olin students are over-confident) might be a side effect of trying to build this (necessary) confidence across the population.
MEL-L3: whereas Ben, technically speaking, also has a ME degree. So I'm curious why Jon saw one as a design guy and not the other. I wonder if it may have been the result of what Dan was working on -- if he was assigned to develop the ME track, then sure, people would see him as an ME person.
LYNN 3: No, he was totally in charge of SDP!! Other stuff too, but SDP was his baby.
LYNN 3: I am failing to cut and paste.  The sentence from Jon's quote about leaving ("I guess I never had the sense of oh, crap, we're losing a design person...")  WOW is that different from my memory.
MEL-L3: Hrm, well -- re the confidence/entitled thing... Olin students sometimes come in (and for that matter, graduate) with either impostor syndrome or its opposite (dunning-kruger, where relative novices who don't know what they don't know end up thinking they're better than they are)
LYNN 3: Perhaps that's because Jon didn't have SDP land in his lap :)
MEL-L3: (I'm following your thread re Jon/Dan, but thinking out loud re confidence)
LYNN 3: confidence:  I think it is hard to foster the right level of confidence in students, especially in a population of students.  Traditional engineering education beats the confidence out of you, so only the strong survive.  We may err on the other side.  Your comment about audacity made me think that this might not be solely out of trying to be humane; it might also have important pedagogical basis.
LYNN 3: Yeah...we're having two conversations in parallel/interwoven.  Works for me, but i pity normal folk trying to follow the conversation(s).
LYNN 3: Rob: Chapter 3, Ben, please save the day, we will defer to you. The idea of "hey, we have an expert, dump all responsibility on the expert’s lap, help them if they beg for help, otherwise trust them to do a good job." Ben Linder, the great design guru. Clearly he is going to run it. He brought in vocabulary; we would hear him use a phrase [and think] "What a great way to express that."
MEL-L3: I can't speak to dunning-kruger because I came in with massive amounts of impostor syndrome (despite what all my classmates will say) and left with... massive amounts of impostor syndrome that I was really conscious of and able to (usually) correct for, but the "confidence! push back! woo! go!" stuff I experienced at Olin was (1) totally mandatory for me being ever able to go "huh, maybe my clients/bosses/etc aren't always right," and (2) still my primary weapons against impostor syndrome today. 
But I could see how they might come across as entitlement/arrogance if I use them as a shield of "zomg i hope people don't recognize how scared I am and how underconfident I actually am," which I'm sure I did early on and probably in more subtle ways even today. (I'm talking about myself because I'm hesitant to apply this analysis to others.)
LYNN 3: I wonder whether Rob (and Jon) remember(s) that SDP needed to be designed *before* Ben was hired, and that Jill and I had been handed the task. Also, part of what Rob credits to Ben is really Chris Heape.
LYNN 3: Jon: You know, there’s another little twist on this though. We identified UOCD as the course that we wanted to run in the sophomore year, around the same time we also pulled out the POE class.
LYNN 3: false. (I don't like to say things my colleagues say are false, but in this case, the facts are not with Jon.)
MEL-L3: But I also thought Olin was pretty good at deflating egos for many (not all, but many) students who came in more on the dunning-kruger side of the spectrum. And also good at screening out, via CW, students who would have been unbearably and possibly uncorrectably cocky.
LYNN 3: I don't think the '06ers had POE.  They *did* have SDP.
MEL-L3: I'm guessing Rob was too absorbed with designing AHS to pay much attention to SDP, but can check with him.
LYNN 3: dunning-kruger:  we try :)
MEL-L3: I think '06ers weren't mandated to do POE, yeah.
 LYNN sent SDP evaluation competencies.pdf 
LYNN 3: Thought you might enjoy this piece of history I found.
MEL-L3: I remember '06's sophomore year as being... uh... not well-received by '06, shall we say.
LYNN 3: From Jan 2004 :)
MEL-L3: Ooh. *downloads*
LYNN 3: Yeah, not saying things were so fabulous....but I am sure that '06 had sophomore ICB in the fall, followed by SDP in the spring. I don't *think* they had POE at all, but I'd have to check that.
MEL-L3: (Wow, graphic design on the SDP doc... did Jon do the layout for this thing?) POE didn't exist until my sophomore year, so they wouldn't have had it at all, no.
LYNN 3: Certainly what Jon says next (leftover credits, etc.) seems to resonate with POE being later.
LYNN 3: SDP doc:  probably Ben or Chris.
MEL-L3: (and first-run POE was also pretty... gross.)
MEL-L3: Ah, that would make sense. Yeah, someone with graphic design skillz.
LYNN 3: But it is possible (continuing POE thought) that we realized that SDP couldn't do everything it was supposed to, so split it into what is now UOCD and POE.
LYNN 3: The first fourth semester, the course was called SDP (at least that's what the document and my files seem to indicate) but was already recognizably UOCD.
MEL-L3: Yeah, soph-ICB + SDP was what I remember being told as an incoming student. And POE was, as I remember it, the result of "okay, THAT iteration of sophomore year was a mess; let's... try something different."
LYNN 3: the original brief for SDP was much more "build it", or at least what is now engineering for humanity (figure out what is needed *and* build it)
LYNN 3: Right....So Jon's comments in the vicinity of my chapter 3 might be a bit off, because he seems to be conflating the POE-extraction with the first run of UOCD (SDP).
MEL-L3: (or what I'm trying to say, really, is: the sophomore year was visibly and dramatically refactored in between '06's taking it and my class of '07 taking it, and that refactoring seemed clearly tied to '06's suboptimal sophomore year experience and their very vocal outcry regarding the suboptimality of that experience.)
MEL-L3: hrm, ok. /me re-reads the chapter 3 and surrounding parts again
LYNN 3: The later part of that paragraph sounds right; just the chronology in the beginning is a bit wonky. Also my "Ben, save the day!" bit precedes the splitting off of POE.
LYNN 3: YES:  Mel:  (or what I'm trying to say, really, is: the sophomore year was visibly and dramatically refactored in between '06's taking it and my class of '07 taking it, and that refactoring seemed clearly tied to '06's suboptimal sophomore year experience and their very vocal outcry regarding the suboptimality of that experience.)
LYNN 3: But we're discussing how it happened, i.e., how the '06 sophomore year went, right?
MEL-L3: yeah.
LYNN 3: Jon: This is really interesting. (reads from Lynn) "Yes we do know what we’re doing, why do you ask."  I did not feel that way early on in UOCD.  I actually felt like I didn’t know what I was doing, and in the early days of UOCD my sense was everyone in the room, Lynn and Jill and Mark and myself, were all just looking to Ben and Chris to help us learn. Now I wonder. Maybe the dynamic was different than I perceived. I recognized it was really hard and it was language I wasn’t used to using.  It was a stretch.  It was really stretching me in ways that were at times kind of uncomfortable.
LYNN 3: LYNN realizes that Jon has no idea of when I am being sarcastic.
MEL-L3: That was the part I wondered about earlier in this conversation when I said "I think Jon missed your humor there"
LYNN 3: LYNN wonders whether this is a fundamental misunderstanding in how Jon and I have been relating for the last decade or so.
MEL-L3: it's probably less obvious in text
LYNN 3: LYNN missed Mel's comment about Jon missing humor.
MEL-L3: you definitely have a change of tone of voice in person (at least to me)
LYNN 3: yes....but Rob reads that change of tone into my text, and Jon does not.
MEL-L3: ...you're right. Hum. Well, you've also team-taught with Rob...
LYNN 3: and I think that this is actually very important outside the context of your dissertation.
LYNN 3: Yes...Rob and I do I think generally "get" one another.
MEL-L3: "this is actually very important outside the context of your dissertation" == the text-tone-sarcasm thing, or the "maybe Jon/Lynn mutual understanding could be improved with humor-identification" thing?
LYNN 3: Seeing Jon's read of my text, I am wondering how often I intend things one way and Jon hears them another.
LYNN 3: In life, not just in this project.
MEL-L3: Oh, like in a Collaboratory context too? Hm.
LYNN 3: Like across the board.
MEL-L3: Yeah, the Olin faculty team dynamics behind the scenes of Collaboratory stuff are fascinating to watch, especially after 4 years of getting teamwork coaching from y'all -- we get to apply the same sort of analysis to you now, and it's like, "whoa, they're not perfect at teamwork either."
LYNN 3: I see him responding to the text in front of him with "hey, that's weird.  Lynn and I had totally different experiences."  And then I read his description of his experience and think "that's what I was experiencing too!"
MEL-L3: MEL laughs.
MEL-L3: ("our professors are human! holy cow!")
LYNN 3: shhhhhh.....don't let word get out.
LYNN 3: Rob: Chapter 4.5, Maybe that is Lynn’s way of talking about one of the frustrations evident of the students.
LYNN 3: Rob getting me.
MEL-L3: yeah.
LYNN 3: Rob getting me and trying to gently suggest to Jon that there might be another interpretation?
MEL-L3: Well, Rob's not talking to Jon there... he's talking to me. And Rob's comment preceded Jon's.
LYNN 3: Had he seen Jon's reaction to my comment.  Oh, guess not.
MEL-L3: Actually, Jon *read* Rob's comment on your text when he was making his comments... so Jon had actually seen Rob's reaction, not the other way around. (I can go back and double-check that, but I'm pretty sure.)
LYNN 3: interesting.  because I read into Rob's comment the gentle way in which he tries to get his conversational partner to think a little differently :)
MEL-L3: ...just double-checked. yes, Rob's comment was in Jon's prompt.
MEL-L3: Ha! Well, maybe Rob was anticipating Jon's later read of your text, but... actually, I doubt that's what he was thinking. Just like this session is the first time you've read Rob and Jon's stuff at all, Rob and Jon spent most of their third sessions going "whoa, wait, is that what she said? what he said? whoa, whoa!"
LYNN 3: ok...i'm done reading now.
MEL-L3: and Rob wouldn't have known (because I didn't think to mention) whether Jon would read your Chapter 4.5 before or after him.
MEL-L3: MEL ponders.
MEL-L3: Soooo. Lots of stuff here (including the first page, which we skipped unpacking at the start of this convo). But I also note the time -- how much longer do you want to go?
LYNN 3: I am definitely OK until 1, possibly a bit longer than that.
MEL-L3: Ok, let's run another 20m and then wrap up?
LYNN 3: sure
LYNN 3: (delay was hands off keyboard, not anything you should read into)
LYNN 3: LYNN has relocated to a sunny spot
MEL-L3: Ok. I'd like to circle back to something you said at the start of today. "Anyway, I've finished reading the identity chunk.  Happy to discuss further, or I can go on to the next chunk." MEL-L3: was there anything up there you wanted to unpack more?
LYNN 3: oh, when you title a section "identity" there's always plenty to unpack :)
MEL-L3: (especially in light of the big threaded Rob-Jon-Lynn "is sarcasm detected?" discussion we've just speculated about)
MEL-L3: MEL grins.
LYNN 3: LYNN notes that Jon's identity statement is not included.
MEL-L3: That's why our "what is I" class started holding class-outside-of-class so we could talk more before you and Rob showed up.
MEL-L3: ...oh, hm -- right, I took that out because it made the prompt long. let me add it back in.
LYNN 3: LYNN didn't know that....would have liked to have been a fly on *that* wall
LYNN 3: LYNN finds it interesting that Jon's identity statement came out for length, but the Jewish thought bit was retained.
MEL-L3: well, this was a prompt for you, and I thought that bit was interesting
LYNN 3: Fair.
LYNN 3: Things that usually come up in my identity statements (depending on whom I am speaking with and what I am trying to communicate):
LYNN 3: I am a computer/cognitive scientist.  (general space I think about/occupy intellectually).
MEL-L3: (in hindsight, that Jon-identity-chunk is tiny and not quite equivalent to yours/Rob's; I'll rummage in the background for other bits as well, but Jon talks about his identity in a different way and makes it quite clear he doesn't like the "standard" intro of "I am professor XYZ from institution ABC in discipline FooBar," which is why I clipped the intro I did for him.)
LYNN 3: I was an MIT prof for 10 years.  (professional cred)
LYNN 3: I am very interdisciplinary/interested in interstitial things. (don't try to pigeonhole me :) )
MEL-L3: you use the word "interstitial" in conversation? :)
LYNN 3: Not usually in casual conversation.  I try to hold back :) I say the same thing in more words.  Or fewer:  "I don't really know what i do any more."  "I do lots of different things."  "I'm not sure what my field is any more." I don't currently feel a strong CS-affiliation, but when I find myself in deep engr ed issues, I realize that I am a CS ed person more than an engr ed person. Oh, also on the list of things that I say early to a certain subset:  I am a liberal arts kind of person/I am not an engineer... but I speak engineering as a second language now. (I'm not a geek, though I can play one on TV.  A lie, but sometimes a useful one.)
MEL-L3: MEL is fascinated by that, because I'm often mistaken as a CS ed person when I hang out in the open source space, and usually react "oh no no no, I'm not a CS person really, I'm an engineering ed person... who's done... lots of software..."
LYNN 3: (and I am a different kind of geek in any case.)
MEL-L3: MEL grins
LYNN 3: LYNN fully appreciates that what Mel says is true. CS ed and Engr ed are different. When I wind up in a CS ed conversation, I suddenly get this "oh, yeah, I'm home" feeling. Well, sometimes I get "oh, yeah, I'm home, and now I remember why my relatives drive me up a wall" feeling :) Yes, Jon's identity statements have evolved a lot.
MEL-L3: (I found more Jon intro stuff and pasted it in just now) (ah, you see that)
LYNN 3: He's got a huge stake now in not being "MatSci Prof from Olin"
MEL-L3: gosh yeah he does.
MEL-L3: it's like an anticipation -- i think we all (jon, rob, you, me) do it to some degree
MEL-L3: "I'm X (or maybe you think I'm X), but I'm not like other X (or maybe I'm not even X at all)"
LYNN 3: This is fascinating:  Jon:  I have been hesitant to say I am a professor, faculty member.
MEL-L3: yeah, that + some similar language around disciplines is why jon's intro excerpt was originally so short and weird compared to yours and Rob's, which fit more of the "here is my intro in the standard faculty template... now let me tell you that I break that template quite a bit"
LYNN 3: I am so used to the culture of academia, and to having to make myself credible in that culture, that I do exactly what Jon hates without thinking twice.
MEL-L3: Well -- and I also pointed this out to Jon -- you went through lots and lots of years of MIT culture before arriving at Olin. Whereas Jon and Rob, Olin was their First Big Thing.
LYNN 3: No....I went through lots of years of academic culture before arriving at MIT.  This is at least as much (probably much more) a Harvard thing.
MEL-L3: I mean, Jon had Bucknell, but it was a few years at a small liberal arts college -- very different.
MEL-L3: Hrm.
LYNN 3: People tend to think of me as MIT, but that is not my culture at all.
MEL-L3: oh, PhD enculturation too?
MEL-L3: ...huh.
LYNN 3: I was always an interloper there. PhD is from Brown. Undergrad is Harvard. Formative, y'know.
MEL-L3: Okay, misconception correction on my part as well then, because (not knowing MIT/Harvard cultures very well myself) I'd always thought of you as MIT.
MEL-L3: Ah yeah. :)
MEL-L3: dang! I keep forgetting you went to another school, even! I keep thinking of Lynn as "Harvard, MIT, Olin" and totally forget about Brown!
LYNN 3: And I have spent a huge amount of my life on the periphery of Harvard, since my husband has worked there (except 2 years) since I graduated, and I've done both of my sabbaticals there, and I am on an advisory committee, and I have lots of friends from there etc..... MIT and Harvard have radically different cultures in a whole bunch of different ways. I feel like I mostly understand the MIT culture, but I am definitely an immigrant there, not a native.
MEL-L3: (Harvard for you is probably going to be Olin for me, especially given that I'll be back to postdoc soon. Huh. *looks into the foggy mirror of the future*)
MEL-L3: MEL nods
LYNN 3: While Mark Somerville and Gill and Alisha and Debbie and Jessica and Zhenya et al. are all natives.
MEL-L3: but your intro only mentions MIT (for cred, you said). You didn't introduce yourself as Harvard.
LYNN 3: True.  The cognitive science bits, and the interdisciplinary bits, and the not-being-an-engineer bits, are all Harvard.
MEL-L3: mm, i can see that.
LYNN 3: I often say "I have all of my degrees from liberal arts institutions, but I've only ever had faculty appointments at engineering schools." Also, there's this New Yorker cartoon....
[12:58:53 PM] MEL-L3: ooh, the degrees vs faculty appointments bit is a nice one that will probably get folded into later iterations of the Lynn-intro-text-for-other-people. (Namely, for the Berea faculty reading the Olin stuff in the next round of storytelling.)
MEL-L3: MEL also notes the time
LYNN 3: LYNN fails to find the cartoon, will describe it
LYNN 3: Two people meeting each other.  One says "I go to college in Boston."  The other says, "Me too.  Which house are you in?"
MEL-L3: (I'm unscheduled after this, but recognize that you may want to do other things at some point. Also, we may want to talk about that FIE special session... someday.)
MEL-L3: MEL laughs re new yorker
LYNN 3: But it is completely true.  People who went (ugrad, at least) to Harvard generally don't say it unless they have reason to/know how it will land. True story:  Once as an undergraduate meeting other Boston-area students, I admitted where I went.  The response?  "Oh, are you like really brilliant or something?"
MEL-L3: really? it's a harvard culture thing to not mention you went to harvard?
LYNN 3: Cured me of that habit quick.
LYNN 3: Yes.  That's the point of the New Yorker cartoon.
LYNN 3: Harvard ugrads live in dorms called houses (analogous to Yale's colleges, if you keep track).
MEL-L3: hrm, because of the "oh, those HAHVAHD people" perception...
MEL-L3: MEL nods
LYNN 3: Harvard students also don't wear Harvard-logo gear.
LYNN 3: Yeah.
LYNN 3: It's a thing.
LYNN 3: So no, I don't say Harvard lightly.
MEL-L3: ...whereas the Olin version is "I went to Olin, which is a small undergraduate engineering college in the Boston area <insert further description of Olin here>."
MEL-L3: MEL nods.
MEL-L3: we joke about it at alumni meetups sometimes, how we each have our 30-second Olin-explanation spiel that we have to keep pulling out all the time
LYNN 3: For the first decade or so, I'd say (when asked), "Olin College.  You've never heard of it, because it doesn't exist."
MEL-L3: yeah, something like that.
LYNN 3: I still remember Tommy Cecil's commencement remarks:  "Now, when you go to a party and someone says 'Olin?  I know someone who graduated from there', maybe it will be true" :)
MEL-L3: that's changing now, though -- especially with the Collaboratory stuff and so many people coming through specifically to pick up on what ends up being Olin's "design stuff" (even if that may not be what they know they're coming in for, that's what you give them in the workshop)
LYNN 3: Anyway, growing up (academically, at least) at Harvard etc. -- and simultaneously being someone who absolutely identifies with The Academy/Academe -- I definitely identify myself as a professor. And within the academy I know how to very quickly establish that I am credible.
MEL-L3: you are amazing at navigating/working the system, i've noticed.
LYNN 3: and I accept that that is how this particular game is played
MEL-L3: (it's a little scary sometimes)
LYNN 3: Sometimes.  Sometimes I fail badly.  I'm mostly trying to point out a difference between my identity and Jon's, like you needed such a thing pointed out :)
MEL-L3: it's a good point-out. more data to analyze :D
MEL-L3: your identity descript and Rob's seem more... aligned
LYNN 3: Alisha Sarang-Sieminski has a wonderfully colorful phrase for "establishing professional credibility" and the like, but I am afraid it is not going into a public transcript.
MEL-L3: Roger. I'll ask her about that off the record at some point. :)
LYNN 3: Yeah....Rob is an academic, and comfortable being an academic.  His history side is squarely in that space.  He's interested in Jon's world -- which seems to be largely that of change agent/doer -- but that doesn't keep him from identifying as an academic.
LYNN 3: LYNN volunteers to tell Mel some other time.
LYNN 3: I *do* sometimes identify as a troublemaker, and at least one version of my professional bio uses such a phrase, but only after first carefully establishing credibility in traditional ways.
MEL-L3: Jon's reflection at the very end on the Collaboratory is also interesting, in that I can't imagine you or Rob saying it: "There’s a benefit to sending people off to build prototypes, messy, ugly, high risk of failure prototypes. At the same time it seemed to take us forever to figure out what the purpose or goal of certain Olin experiences really was. So I think people could get there more quickly than we did, and still allow for this exploration and emergent kind of understanding of what it is you’re doing. I guess I’m stumbling right now because I’m thinking oh, crap, am I doing all of these groups of faculty around the world a complete disservice by basically easing them through the process that we had such difficulty with? Am I actually doing good or am I doing harm?"
LYNN 3: Yes....I saw that.  I suspect that Rob (and I know that I) might have the same question, but it is not front and center the way it is for Jon.
MEL-L3: Hrm, that's interesting. Yeah, you have that bridge to the ivory tower that you keep open at all times, with the professional cred thing. Whereas... maybe Jon doesn't... prioritize keeping that bridge open quite as much.
LYNN 3: Absolutely (ivory bridge :) )
MEL-L3: not deliberately trying to burn it, but not being like "must keep open at allll cosssstsss." And if it burns, then it burns, and it's a casualty of doing whatever was more important.
LYNN 3: I do remember thinking, when I took the job at Olin, "I might never be able to have a legitimate academic job again", and I definitely don't have the same options that I had ten years ago (though I do have a number of new ones that I didn't then).
MEL-L3: I'm pretty clueless about the job front in the higher ranks of higher ed, but I'd think that with you being a dean and all, you could easily move into any admin post at any STEM school that wanted to do cool stuff, or any liberal arts place that wanted to bring engineering in. That is to say, you seem really mobile, to me.
LYNN 3: More importantly, though, I want to skip the part where I have to get people to take me seriously and get right down to business.  Whereas Jon, I think, doesn't really want to work with people who would take him seriously just because of some quick details; he *expects* to be asked to show the goods, and he maybe respects you less if you don't demand them. The whole mobility conversation is a good one for another day.
MEL-L3: hm. so you're ok with using shortcuts to get to the respect, and fixing the misconception-details later? (one possible interpretation)
MEL-L3: MEL is rolling out the copyright transfer stuff in the background
LYNN 3: I am less worried about the misconception-details than Jon is.  My identity is not tied up with being unorthodox or an outsider or a rebel. My identity is very much an academic/intellectual.  I also happen to have some expertise in curricular innovation, educational change, faculty professional development, etc.
MEL-L3: it's interesting how you divide that statement into "this is central" and "this happens also to exist peripherally" categories.
MEL-L3: (copyright transfer stuff is up in the transcript, so open-licensing can happen anytime -- probably after you read through things)
LYNN 3: well, in some cases I lead with the latter, but you're right, the former is more central. I used to be someone who happened to have some expertise in artificial intelligence/commonsense reasoning;  then cognitive robotics/hci; now curricular innovation.  Who knows what is next? But being a teacher and an academic and an intellectual?  That's who I am.
MEL-L3: but the academic/intellectual stays constant.
MEL-L3: MEL nods
LYNN 3: And what I'm reading in Jon and Rob's transcripts is making me appreciate the variety in this identity-space.
MEL-L3: even at a place like Olin. I was surprised by that.
LYNN 3: Rob is very much a historian.  He might be a historian before he's an academic. I am a cognitive scientist, but only after an academic.
MEL-L3: MEL makes mental note to check that
LYNN 3: And Jon would probably disavow any of the corresponding titles or even identities; Jon is a Change Agent.
MEL-L3: (summarizing) Lynn: an academic who's a CS/cogsci person and does curricular innovation. Rob: a historian who's an academic and does curricular innovation. Jon: a curricular innovatior who works as an academic and matsci person.
MEL-L3: yeah, I read Jon's transcript (also public) for a different study that was all about change agents, and he definitely goes wholeheartedly into that identity in that transcript.
LYNN 3: Yeah, probably.  I don't want to put words in others' mouths, and especially I am not quite sure of Rob's ordering, but I do think something like this is true.
MEL-L3: it's a hypothesis-draft I can check with Rob and Jon.
LYNN 3: I think computer science is much further from my core, and cognitive science much closer, if that matters.  But maybe that will shift again over time.
MEL-L3: (also, my fingers are starting to peter out. are we near a good pausing point?)
MEL-L3: (...ooh, re: cs/cogsci near/far from core. but hrm.)
MEL-L3: these conversations always give me so much to ponder. I love my job.
LYNN 3: And Jon would probably put change agent before curricular innovator.  I don't think he cares as much about curriculum per se -- it's the medium he's working in at the moment, rather than the heart of the matter -- while change agent I think is very much his identity.
MEL-L3: ...hm, I think you might be right.
LYNN 3: anyway, yes, this seems like a good ending point. I really enjoy this, and hope that the conversations don't derail too much to be useful.
MEL-L3: so on this transcript front, I'll do the usual thing of sending you the cleaner google doc version sometime today, and you can open-licence it at your leisure
MEL-L3: no, they're AWESOME and the derailments aren't derailments, they're "rich data" (or so I tell myself)
MEL-L3: ---- ends on-the-record portion of this transcript ---
