MEL-L5: ---------------- TRANSCRIPT BEGINNING LINE ---------------
MEL-L5: [google docs link]
MEL-L5: You know the deal :)
LYNN 5: So, first thought:  reading Mark's question, I wasn't sure that I understood what he was asking.
LYNN 5: Rob explains somewhat, and I am left wondering whether Rob has accurately reflected what Mark was getting at.
MEL-L5: *nods*
MEL-L5: It's a Rob-heavy transcript because I haven't gotten Jon in on this stuff yet, by the way. But I'm hoping we'll have Jon's stuff in time for your last session.
LYNN 5: [There's also an interesting aside where Rob suggests that learning is bi-directional, which I think is totally legit, but probably not what you're probing here.]
MEL-L5: Oh, I'd be happy to delve into that if you think it's interesting.
LYNN 5: Let's go one way or the other.  We can always loop back.
MEL-L5: I mean, my research question is understanding faculty as learners, and that was actually something I think my committee brought up as a concern -- would I (as Mel-the-researcher) be biased towards the perspective of "Olin faculty know everything, and will teach Berea faculty stuff!" instead of seeing a bidirectionality...
MEL-L5: ...let's start with what you said first
MEL-L5: which was "I am left wondering whether Rob has accurately reflected what Mark was getting at."
LYNN 5: Rob says 'Mark says "How do we ensure that there's communication that's being maintained while you're moving a course forward? What do we do about that?"'
MEL-L5: (But yeah, will probably loop back and ask you about that bidirectional thing later)
MEL-L5: Yep, I see your highlight there.
LYNN 5: [Correction:  Rob says 'Mark is saying "How do we ensure that there's communication that's being maintained while you're moving a course forward? What do we do about that?"']
LYNN 5: Is that an accurate reflection of what Mark was asking, in your opinion?
LYNN 5: Rob probably saw more of Mark's transcript than I'm seeing, so presumably he had some context for the Mark quote you give here.
MEL-L5: Rob got the same Mark quote context you got
LYNN 5: Rob also suggests "the fact that you're really getting everybody in the room. But it's a size issue."
MEL-L5: Would you like me to re-paste the whole Mark excerpt in there for you?
LYNN 5: "it just is not feasible to have 40 people in the room at the same time."
LYNN 5: I don't care; I am just trying to understand the question Mark is asking, and standalone I don't have enough context.
LYNN 5: But if you tell me that Rob's interpretation is legit, I'm happy to work from that.
LYNN 5: I'm not sure it matters for the purpose of the Mel-Lynn discussion whether Rob's interpretation is accurate.
MEL-L5: Let's go with "Rob's interpreation is legit."
MEL-L5: (For the record, I think both your interpretations are legit, you just picked up on different aspects.)
LYNN 5: I just see things like "regardless of their position"
MEL-L5: (But I am not the sole moderator of legitimacy and truth and so forth and do not have the final word of interpreting Mark, and all that.)
LYNN 5: Fair.
LYNN 5: OK, so then Mark is wrestling with how to get a larger group to communicate and coordinate.
LYNN 5: And Rob is right, we rarely do stuff as a group of 40.
LYNN 5: And when we do, we definitely have trouble.
LYNN 5: I've been a member of teaching teams of 6ish at Olin
LYNN 5: and of teaching teams of 25ish (but very hierarchical) at MIT
LYNN 5: and it is hard when you get beyond a handful or so to have everyone be co-equal.
LYNN 5: In fact, now that I think of it, even the 6ish have had some hierarchy
MEL-L5: formal, or informal?
LYNN 5: In practice, they've been both.
LYNN 5: At MIT, very formal and then informal laid over that.  Who has more experience, etc.
LYNN 5: At Olin, a little formal -- someone is the course lead, or a couple of people are -- and then a lot of informal -- lead because they know the most, have done it the longest, etc., plus various status markers, either explicit or implicit.
LYNN 5: I do think we have a pretty flat, mutually respectful culture, in which we're open to hearing from anyone.
MEL-L5: anyone == faculty staff students?
MEL-L5: (or even outside the olin community?)
LYNN 5: At the same time, I recognize that I am capable of throwing my weight around in a way that I was not as a new assistant prof, and that not all of my colleagues feel equally comfortable doing that.
LYNN 5: anyone == member of the teaching team, in this context
LYNN 5: and our openness to ninjas is variable; we definitely listen, and we also likely listen with certain filters.
MEL-L5: *nods.* You and rob both talked about the filtering of student feedback.
MEL-L5: (in response to other comments Mark made, as you may recall)
LYNN 5: There are NINJAs who know much more than I do about some things, or have much more insight, and I definitely feel like I appreciate that.
LYNN 5: And at the same time if I disagree I will weigh it in the context of what I think I bring to the issue vs. what I think the NINJA does.
LYNN 5: Same with students enrolled in the course, with even a bit more respect for the difference in context.
LYNN 5: Not necessarily an "I know better" attitude, but at the same time a presumption that I have been where they are (or close) and they have not been some of the places I've been.
LYNN 5: I try really hard to take into account that whatever someone tells me legitimately reflects what s/he sees and feels.
LYNN 5: How s/he interprets it, and what s/he recommends as a result, well, those are judgements.
MEL-L5: Part of what I think I'm hearing (reading) is that you think the signal to noise ratio of student input is worth making sense of it
LYNN 5: Yes, generally.  They're in an excellent position to tell me what something looks like from a vantage point that I cannot obtain.
MEL-L5: and some of what Rob talks about (a little later on) is the process of students learning how to give feedback with better SNR -- that giving feedback is a learned skill
MEL-L5: and it makes me wonder whether (warning: terrible sentence structure ahead) the skill of teaching students to give better feedback is also a learned skill
LYNN 5: Different ways of trying to extract the signal; sitting with one student and probing deeply, vs. polling, vs. selecting some "expert" observers....Different times call for different approaches.
LYNN 5: This is great:  and it makes me wonder whether (warning: terrible sentence structure ahead) the skill of teaching students to give better feedback is also a learned skill
LYNN 5: And yes, it is (a learned skill, although also terrible sentence structure)
LYNN 5: I am still on the first page of the doc, because it is very rich.
MEL-L5: yeah, I put a lot in there. if we don't get through all of it, that's fine
LYNN 5: Rob moves from the unpacking of the question to an answer that really focuses on story-telling as sense-making as productive work.
LYNN 5: Meta-cognizing bigtime.
MEL-L5: (I'm definitely erring on the side of "Okay, faculty members know how to make good choices about navigating complex data, and we've all done enough research that we won't feel guilty about not mining it allll")
MEL-L5: YES (re: Rob)
LYNN 5: "what are the take home messages?":  I think I don't ask this enough.
LYNN 5: I did a better job of it earlier, and I think I was OK when we rolled out E4H, e.g., but recently I feel like I am just blasting my way through teaching, head down.
MEL-L5: Well, you have this whole Collaboratory-Dean role thing -- you wear more hats now.
LYNN 5: I've had a few really full semesters.  This semester, I have definitely hit the point where I am incredibly frustrated with the amount of stuff I'm doing badly, or at least merely satisficing.
LYNN 5: I am looking forward to resetting a bit, after the semester ends, and to trying to do fewer things better.
MEL-L5: I feel like I hear you say that every semester.
MEL-L5: (Although this semester I've heard you say that far later in the term than in semesters past, which is probably good.)
LYNN 5: Yeah.  I do.  I can point to a couple of times I did (do fewer things better), but it doesn't seem to stick.
LYNN 5: I do have some hope next semester will be better, because I will actually be doing fewer things (than this semester), but I also won't be teaching (except SCOPE), which will be sad as well as a relief (that I'm not doing it badly/spread too thin).
MEL-L5: So what happens when you blast your way through teaching, head down? In terms of what you learn from the experience, or how you connect with students, or what you see them learning?
MEL-L5: (or anything else on the list that I missed, that's just a strawman list)
LYNN 5: Right now, this semester, I feel that I am not connecting with my students, not giving them a good experience, not living up to their expectations or mine.
MEL-L5: ouch. that's tough self-assessment.
LYNN 5: I am co-teaching my main course, and my co-teacher is doing a lot to pick up the pieces, but is also pretty severely overloaded.
LYNN 5: I am expecting my teaching evals to reflect the fact that this class is somewhat neglected.  I would rate myself pretty absentee this semester.
LYNN 5: And it feels pretty bad.  I wish it were different.  I also understand why it is the way it is, and while I wish it were different, it is probably not a totally unreasonable tradeoff.
MEL-L5: yeah.
MEL-L5: I also remember -- not this semester, and not with your students -- but I know Olin students are cognizant that faculty are people who get overloaded too
MEL-L5: and are apt to say things like "wow, Lynn is really busy this semester, I hope she's okay" rather than "Lynn is a terrible teacher, why doesn't she shape up"
LYNN 5: I don't mean to say that the students deserve the abandonment they've gotten from me -- hopefully the course is good enough and the colleague has provided enough and there's a lot of peer learning going on -- and I feel like I've had to cut some corners that I wish I hadn't had to cut in a lot of areas this semester.
MEL-L5: (I'm sure this also happens in other schools, but I have heard it a lot from Olin students, so.)
LYNN 5: yeah, I think our students are more forgiving because they see what else is going on.
MEL-L5: and the faculty let them see what else is going on
MEL-L5: which is a big deal and an odd thing, I'm learning
LYNN 5: And I do think that the fact that our classes are at least as much about the learning environment, the peer learning, the coaching, etc. as about what the faculty member brings means that it doesn't hurt as much as an absentee lecturer.
LYNN 5: (I've taken classes from those folks, and it sucks differently :) )
MEL-L5: and also something I'm wondering about in terms of "Olin faculty development" -- just like teaching students to give good feedback is a learned faculty skill, I wonder if "letting students see what else is going on" is something that gets picked up too
LYNN 5: "letting students see what else is going on":  definitely.
MEL-L5: Mmm, I hear you on that (re: learning environment hurting differently with absentee Olin faculty vs absentee lecturer)
LYNN 5: But now we have an increasing number of students who try to emulate what we're doing, being overloaded, and they're learning the wrong thing.
MEL-L5: They're learning that successful, smart people overextend themselves?
LYNN 5: No; that's true.  They're learning that they *should* overextend themselves.
MEL-L5: They... should?
MEL-L5: (whoa, that showed up in bold)
LYNN 5: I'm spending all this time trying to figure out how to do fewer things better, and my students are trying to figure out how to do more.
MEL-L5: so you see it as a tendency to counteract, rather than amplify
MEL-L5: and you're saying that students see it as a maximization game to play until the limits of burnout have been reached
MEL-L5: ?
LYNN 5: <confused by :tendency to counteract>
LYNN 5: students see it as a maximization game to play until the limits of burnout have been reached:  yes.
MEL-L5: oh, sorry. er, reparsing self...
MEL-L5: that smart people tend to overextend themselves
MEL-L5: and that you see the tendency to overextend, and go "oh, I should try to curb that"
MEL-L5: as opposed to "YAY YAY YAY OVEREXTENDING LET ME DO IT MORE"
LYNN 5: Yes.  So I'll be frank and say that my overextension this semester happened in spite of some careful planning to the contrary and as a result of some unexpected late-in-the-game re-jiggering.
LYNN 5: I definitely feel like I oscillate, getting overextended, pulling back, feeling underutilized, taking on more.
MEL-L5: This awareness you have, of your oscillation and overextension and trying to moderate being overloaded -- it sounds like something you're quite aware of, even if you're not in perfect control of it at all times.
LYNN 5: Because there's a delay in the system, I tend to overshoot (in both directions), and because I do better under pressure/with adrenalin added, I tend to oscillate around slightly-too-busy.
LYNN 5: aware:  yup.
MEL-L5: have you always been aware like this?
LYNN 5: always is a long time, Mel.
LYNN 5: I don't remember not being aware, but I'm sure I wasn't.
MEL-L5: d'oh. precision in language. right. :) were you aware of that when you were a student? (ugrad or grad)
LYNN 5: I definitely get better at understanding (and there's always so much more to understand!)
MEL-L5: (also, re: delay in the system, overshooting, etc -- I'm now thinking about fun modcon modeling problems)
LYNN 5: Here is my semester by semester course enrollment as an undergraduate:
LYNN 5: first semester:  5 courses, of which I started in 2 total killers and then switched to 2 much easier ones; second semester:  5 courses.
LYNN 5: third semester:  6 courses; fourth semester:  4 courses (and a TA job).
LYNN 5: fifth semester:  7 courses; sixth semester:  3 courses (and a head TA job)
LYNN 5: seventh semester:  5 courses (and a TA job); eighth semester:  4 courses, which was an act of conscious will.
MEL-L5: ...dang.
LYNN 5: Yeah....could'a graduated with 40 courses.
MEL-L5: so you at least started trying really hard to pull back in semester 8.
LYNN 5: Actually, my senior year I finally figured out that I should take courses that were exceptionally well taught.
LYNN 5: Then, spring semester, I figured out that it is possible to write a paper *before* the night before it is due, and that if you do it a week (or at least a lot of days) in advance, you can even *edit* and *rewrite*.
MEL-L5: gasp!
LYNN 5: So yeah, I think I've known I oscillate, though at the time I am not sure I would have labeled it.
MEL-L5: well, workload management (even in the face of that system delay that makes overshooting easy) is certainly a vital life skill for faculty
MEL-L5: ...actually, it's a vital life skill for everyone
LYNN 5: On a different topic:  I can't help wondering what Rob refers to in this:  "To me of all the stuff Lynn just said, that's the key."
MEL-L5: I'm curious as to how you've developed that skill -- consciously and/or unconsciously -- partly because (1) it's a "faculty as learners" thing I'd love to capture/ask about in general, and partly (2) because I am still learning it myself, as you are well aware
MEL-L5: (looking to see if I can find what Rob refers to exactly)
LYNN 5: workload management.  Ah, a long topic.
LYNN 5: The short bits:  Have someone who can keep a good eye on you and reflect whether you're getting in over your head.
LYNN 5: Recognize that saying no is better than saying yes and then not being able to do it.
MEL-L5: Aha, I think I found what Rob was referring to -- whenever you're ready for it.
LYNN 5: Have kids, which (if nothing else will) forces you to recognize that you *cannot* do everything and you *certainly* cannot do everything well.
LYNN 5: Note that it is likely essential to have more than one kid for this.
MEL-L5: ha :) (re kids)
MEL-L5: I'll get back to you on that particularly strategy in 20 years or so ;)
LYNN 5: Recognize that taking care of yourself, and maintaining your sanity, is a prerequisite to doing just about anything else.
MEL-L5: (does the kids strategy work for parents of both genders?)
LYNN 5: Recognize that sometimes you just can't (whatever).
LYNN 5: [kids/both genders:  It depends on how honest the parent is willing to be about ownership of responsibility.  If you decide that it's someone else's problem to make sure that your kids are "raised right", it likely does not.]
LYNN 5: Remember about the big rocks.
LYNN 5: [Do you know the story that refers to?]
MEL-L5: (if I ever should get married, my future husband will probably get to read this portion of this transcript)
MEL-L5: Big rocks? Yeah, the jar of rocks/pebbles/sand/water, I'm guessing.
LYNN 5: :)
LYNN 5: Yup.  And the moral that the audience often derives is:  you can always squeeze a bit more in.
LYNN 5: But of course, it's really "you've got to put the big rocks in first".
LYNN 5: Sometimes, it's easy to get that one wrong.
MEL-L5: squeezing more in is what the Olin students try to do, according to your earlier description
MEL-L5: hm. yeah, the sensemaking of that story matters quite a bit.
LYNN 5: exactly.  they're extracting the wrong moral.
LYNN 5: "wrong" because the squeeze-more-in moral seems to be a recipe for a dissatisfied life.
LYNN 5: I'm ready to hear where Rob thought I said something good :)
MEL-L5: *produces notepad copy-paste that was handy for just this moment*
MEL-L5: Rob's remark referred to this bit (which was your reply to Mark's question of "How do you make sure co-instructors communicate?")

LYNN, SEP 2014: ROTFL. Ah, easy.  Just hire loud people :) (Not really, of course.  And not everyone gets an equal voice.  We do try to have a culture that helps people to speak up, and that occasionally tells folks like me to shut up and listen...but it is very much an aspiration rather than a reality, I'm sure.) Think carefully about the composition of the teaching team.  Try to make sure that the voices in the room are all heard.  Sprinkle judiciously with Mark Somerville. (MEL-L5: Why Mark Somerville?) Awesome listener.  Really good at hearing lots of things, then synthesizing them into something that represents the best (key) parts of what's been said.  Willing to take the time to make each participant feel heard and get broad buy-in. Also incredibly credible and well-respected. He was a consensus-builder from as far back as I can remember, I think.

MEL-L5: (I believe that's why Rob's next bit goes on to talk about why Mark Somerville is awesome.)
LYNN 5: Makes sense.
MEL-L5: Also, in terms of time -- I'm happy to go as long as you like, but also recognize it's nearly 9.
LYNN 5: I am likely going to fade soon.  I am reading the second page now.
LYNN 5: I think I'm mostly a meta-listener.  Well, no, I know I'm mostly a meta-listener.
LYNN 5: I aspire to be an in-the-moment listener, but I'm not usually particularly good at that.
LYNN 5: I'm not good at silencing my commentator voice, no matter what.
LYNN 5: But I'm not good at it the way Mark is.
LYNN 5: (And there are lots of other folks at Olin, and elsewhere in my life, who are better at it.)
LYNN 5: It is incredibly valuable to have those folks in the room.
MEL-L5: (Reading and nodding -- I'll suggest we try to look at the 2nd page in the next 5-10 minutes, and then strategize a bit for the last session, so you can rest before you fade too much -- and based on that, I'll see whether we want to bring the remainder of the prompts into the last session. But keep going.)
LYNN 5: I'm skimming bc this is all so much fun to read (and it does help that I am a very fast reader).
MEL-L5: :)
LYNN 5: Actually, speaking of things I know about myself:  I can get away with a lot because when I am on, I work really fast.  I write fast, I write pretty cleanly, and I read fast.
MEL-L5: You write AMAZINGLY fast. And it sounds polished the first time out, and appropriately academic-formal. I remember you whipping out some sort of formal letter thing the first summer Emily and I did research at the summer workshop.
LYNN 5: And then I count on my ability to do things like that, and I push too close....Sigh.  My sister likes to jump out of airplanes.  I always thought she was the adrenalin junkie, but now I realize that my addiction is just not to the physical challenge :)
LYNN 5: Really interesting stuff from Ro on the feedback session.
LYNN 5: He is absolutely right about the value of biting his tongue/waiting, and he is absolutely brilliant at this.  I've taught with him and watched him.  I think he's tried to coach me, too, but I'm not good at it.  If I'm thinking, I'm talking.  This is something I'm really trying to learn -- to be quiet, to listen, to wait -- but it is not something natural for me AT ALL/
MEL-L5: Well, you're a pretty active learner.
MEL-L5: From my observations. In terms of the active/reflective learner spectrum.
LYNN 5: Yup, that sounds about right.
LYNN 5: (Ironic, though, that I love to read/learn that way)
MEL-L5: It has its plusses and its pitfalls. (I am active too, and constantly learn better ways to restrain myself -- struggling to lipread and having an interpreter delay helps moderate that tendency on my end.)
MEL-L5: ironic? nah, reading is an active sensemaking process too
MEL-L5: sounds normal
LYNN 5: Parenting, ironically, is teaching me to be a bette listener.
MEL-L5: You said "teaching" in present tense
MEL-L5: even if your kids are grown
MEL-L5: (I am a bit surprised it's parenting rather than partnership/marriage, I'd think that would be the even earlier school for that specific skill)
LYNN 5: Oh, parenting never ends.  It just moves into a different stage.  Or at least that's what my parents tell me....I only know up to where I've gotten.
MEL-L5: (also, re: reading fast vs being able to discuss in depth -- I put lots of prompts because I know you read fast, but there's a tension between that & the "but we want to discuss a few things deeply" tug as well. I'm still making sense of that in my research design, but wanted to make that particular aspect transparent in case you had a preference for whether you'd like your last prompt to be long like this, or shorter and more focused.)

(and on a meta note, I'm able to put these notes in because I've observed you processing many thoughts in parallel without being confused, but I totally do not do this with everyone.)
LYNN 5: partnership/marriage:  my husband is a saint.
MEL-L5: that helps (re: husband-saint) :)
LYNN 5: it is one of my strongest recommendations:  choose a life partner well.  Involves a lot of luck....
LYNN 5: OK, now I've read it all, which makes me happy.
MEL-L5: *grins*
LYNN 5: "it" = the prompts, including the realtime one.
LYNN 5: I am happy to discuss any of it but also want to knock off within 10 min, so please don't make it too interesting.
MEL-L5: This might be a good point to transition into strategizing for the last session (whenever you want to schedule that)
MEL-L5: (it can be over winter break if that is easier)
LYNN 5: Yes, sometime between now and Jan 14.  I mostly don't have plans.
MEL-L5: Given that we have one more round of this to go, in terms of official dissertationness (though I am happy to keep talking about this stuff for the years to come), what are you most interested in diving into?
MEL-L5: (hopefully related to my research question of "faculty as learners")
MEL-L5: for instance, I could bring in lots of Rob/Jon data if you want to look at that
MEL-L5: or i could pull "excerpts from Lynn from the past 5 sessions" so you can see yourself
MEL-L5: or I can bring in more Berea data if you want to hear more from them
MEL-L5: (or all of the above, and then you can pick in the moment -- or I can focus us down)
LYNN 5: All of the above sound interesting.  I'm trying to think about interesting questions or observations.
LYNN 5: I spend a lot of time thinking about what I am doing and why, trying to figure out how to do things better.
MEL-L5: I've noticed :)
LYNN 5: I definitely want to be a better listener, more patient.  That's something I need to learn how to do, and it's also something that helps me to learn other things.
LYNN 5: I guess, in your active-passive spectrum, I want to move myself into more passive modes of learning.
LYNN 5: Though I am uncomfortable with "passive".  I'd say "observational".
LYNN 5: I think I'm an experimenter/tinkerer.
MEL-L5: (the framework uses the word "reflective")
LYNN 5: I observe, but I observe actively.
MEL-L5: Yes.
LYNN 5: See, I think I reflect a lot.
LYNN 5: And, at the same time, I'm intervening.
LYNN 5: So maybe it is passive.
LYNN 5: I just feel like passive means "let it happen to you", and that's not quite what I mean.
LYNN 5: Observational, in a quiet way.
LYNN 5: (Yes, I know that I just defined the word passive :) )
<wonders why I am so allergic to that word>
LYNN 5: Waiting, that's it.
LYNN 5: Patient.
LYNN 5: Back to the kids:  I learned that sometimes I need to wait for my children to come to me.
LYNN 5: That has been a hard thing, but when I get it right, it is really helpful to our communication.
LYNN 5: <no Mel.  wondering whether this is a good time to pause for the evening.>
MEL-L5: *nods*
MEL-L5: So, for the last session... do you want to set a date?
MEL-L5: And I will... see what I can come up with for prompts, probably erring on the long side, but focused towards reflectiveness-type convos.
LYNN 5: I am thinking maybe during the day on 22d or 23.  If you want to do it later, there are probably lots of times later than that.
LYNN 5: Just not sooner.
MEL-L5: I am totally open on both of those days.
LYNN 5: Either we should pick something arbitrary (11am on 23d) or we should arrange to schedule a few days before.
MEL-L5: Let me put it on my calendar to poke you on the 18th or so about this.
LYNN 5: It's a deal.  Maybe I will even have read the transcripts by then :)
MEL-L5: sounds good :)
MEL-L5: Thanks, Lynn.
MEL-L5: -------------- end transcript thingy here --------------
