MEL-L4: Hi, Lynn -- I know it's the middle of the Jewish holidays for you right now, was now still a good time?
LYNN 4: Yup. Family is gone (except for Sara, who says hi) and I thought a conversation with you would be a pleasant way to end the day.
MEL-L4: (Hi, Sara!) Ok, give me a moment to get you the google doc here...
LYNN 4: k.
MEL-L4: Sorry about the delay -- I'm fully ready to go now whenever you are. (Having some laptop issues here lately.) [link to google doc] Aaaand document!
LYNN 4: No worries. I can always amuse myself :)
MEL-L4: With the disclaimer that I have almost certainly not given you enough context to understand *everything* the Berea folks are saying -- for instance, they're going to start talking about "130" at some point, and I'll have to explain that... You know the drill. :) Reactions, thoughts, etc.
LYNN 4: reading slowly....just got through the background, which seemed helpful but not demanding of reaction :)
MEL-L4: Yup yup yup.
LYNN 4: finished intros.  again, not much specifically to react to (though I am sure I could spend more time and find something to say :) )
MEL-L4: Roger.
LYNN 4: Actually, I guess the culture contrast Alan mentions is interesting, but it remains to be seen (in more of the narrative) how it plays out.
MEL-L4: I'm guessing this is not the last time we will mix in the Berea interviews, by the way -- it wasn't until I actually tried pulling this together for you that I realized that there is so much stuff to carry back and forth -- this is an entirely-Berea transcript, and I want to do some Berea-Olin contrasts side by side, so that may be our next convo.
Ooh, the culture contrast with the generations, you mean?
LYNN 4: History of TAD, Gary:  interesting that (angel) it was created by fiat and (beer) *it* was an industrial engineering program
culture contrast:  I was referring to what design meant.  I think Alan attributes that to generational differences, but I'm not sure that's entirely accurate. Also role/importance of design. I'd be surprised if "applied learning" had only circled 3 or 4 times.
MEL-L4: Oh! Oh, the meaning of design -- yes, they do seem to be aggregating around a different concept than Olin. Well, subtly different. So the meaning of "design" as a cultural difference between Olin and Berea.
LYNN 4: I was specifically calling out when Alan said: It's been a big adjustment to pick up on the new technology and design concepts that we didn't have when I was in college. I can remember building a bookcase and we found a great drawing in a book that I liked a lot, but it was a little oversized for me. So I shrank all the measurements down and did some tweaking of it. In some sense, that's designing. But that would usually be the extent of it. We pretty much got our designs from somebody who had already designed something that we're trying to build.
So the cultural difference between Alan's approach to (applied) industrial art, which was basically the know-how to execute (and adapt), vs. what I take to be Gary's approach (and the approach of the newer Berea curriculum) in which figuring out what to build in the first place is a key part of the question. What (I think) Dewey calls "problem setting", not just problem solving. Alan's version is industrial arts as shop class, not as design (either in the sense of engineering design -- design to spec -- or in the sense of usability or problem setting). Maybe I'm misreading Berea's culture, though, bc I haven't made it through the transcript yet :)
MEL-L4: Oh, ok! Thanks for the citation. (I'm working on getting software going that will make that sort of pointing-out much easier, and am hoping you'll get to see that in Madrid sometime.)
No worries -- and watching your reading speed now too, I'm tossing a few more things in for good measure ;)
LYNN 4: Yeah, read fast, write fast, don't spend too much time thinking :) 
Have I sent you my (well, not really mine, but I am one of hte authors) HBS case study?
When we were Industrial Arts, back in... [the] 70s, 80s and even up until the 90s most [high] schools had Industrial Arts programs…[students came to college] already knowing how to do woodworking and already knowing how to do metal, knowing how to weld. [Nowadays,] we have to start at a level... (That's from Alan)
MEL-L4: MEL nods
LYNN 4: yes....but that's the construction skill, not the associated thinking skill (problem setting) I took that IA class in high school.
MEL-L4: You mentioned the HBS case study, but I haven't been able to pull it up yet.
Ooh! (re: IA class in high school) I'm imagining a young Lynn in the metal shop now.
LYNN 4: (I was in HS in the period after girls were allowed/required to take shop -- and boys home ec -- and before they got rid of all of those classes. Wood shop; metals was either not offered or only available in the elective year, and I took typing and art history, i think :)
LYNN 4: (sent Fleming_Stein_Perry_HBS_07.pdf)
LYNN 4: For personal use only (or you can pay HBS for it)
MEL-L4: ooo! thanks :)
LYNN 4: mostly relevant bc it has a not-entirely-made-up mini-history of engineering education, which this fits nicely against.
I did find it odd when one of my children discovered power tools at the age of 17
MEL-L4: Nice! yeah, I have a bunch of history-of-engr-edu books & papers from a class at Purdue a few years back, but I am frantically reading up on the history of tech edu.
MEL-L4: odd in the sense of "that's so old," or "that's so young," or...?
LYNN 4: i definitely learned wood shop stuff when I was 10 or so (outside of school) and then in middle school formally
that's so old to first realize that power tools are an option. i guess i am the more handy adult in my house, and we mostly paid for services vs. doing repair ourselves
MEL-L4: also, I think I am done throwing things into your prompt to make it longer -- and I am very, very sad that Gary's 3rd transcript is not done being transcribed yet because he said some fantastic things about the course they are co-teaching, but you haven't got to that bit yet.
LYNN 4: so no real reason why my children would have known about those things
MEL-L4: ...wow. (re: children learning about things when older) I had the "oh, I think those exist, and I've seen pictures in books and stuff, but those are for Other People to use" experience for power tools.
LYNN 4: but i don't recall my parents (in my case, father) doing a *lot* of that, and yet I already knew they existed even before I took the wood shop thing when I was 8 or 10. I remember being in middle school or maybe high school, going over to the elementary school I'd attended to help in a community service project to build a new playground. I was perfectly proficient with basic hand tools (not stellar, but, y'know, competent enough) And my kids basically missed that, even though they were girl and boy scouts (maybe the boy scout got some of it....and the daughter in question got it from boy scouts :) )
Just thinking about what Gary and Alan are saying about the history of TAD.
MEL-L4: MEL nods. it's a different sort of history than the history of Olin, plus they're in the midst of a larger liberal arts school.
LYNN 4: I also knew how to sew (including reasonably sophisticated use of a sewing machine) before I took sewing in 7th grade; how to cook and bake by then, etc.
MEL-L4: Huh -- so you walked into even your "intro" pre-college classes in the hands-on arts with quite a bit of context and background konwledge.
LYNN 4: Sure.  I just think that the hands-on practical pragmatic skill set that I (as a middle class/privileged suburban child) took mostly for granted (though some of my peers did not get) is not the default any more.
MEL-L4: Kinda like how I had taught myself to program before taking Allen's Software Design class as a first-year. Not that I was great, but... I knew what an interpreter was.
LYNN 4: BTW I had no hands-on classes in high school or college; these were junior high :)
MEL-L4: MEL nods. Yeah, that contextual awareness and "X is no big deal" sense is... a big deal for confidence sometimes, I think.
LYNN 4: yeah, very much (program, interpreter)
MEL-L4: Oh! Dang. Well, at least you got them. (hands-on classes)
LYNN 4: I dunno.  I guess somewhere I had the idea that one should have a host of hands-on practical skills, even though I mostly haven't had to exercise them.  I know that not everyone of my generation felt that, and there were also folks who were *much* more pragmatic and skilled at these things than I, but mostly I think it was understood to be a good in the socioeconomic context. Nowadays, maybe not so much.  I take it that's what Alan is saying about Maker
Apropos the earlier conversation about Alan and design, Gary says (in the design section):  I think we have people that don’t engage [in] it. [They think,] "Our students make things, therefore they design them."  It could be a copy of something that’s been made for a hundred years, but that… instructor’s notion might be "since they made it, they designed it."
MEL-L4: Yeah, see the "nowadays, maybe not so much" thing, and I do want those hands-on skills, plus a lot of other things, to be a normal,"no big deal" part of my kids' lives, if I ever have kids, and so I've been going "whoaaaa, parenting... whoaaaa," because I've never let myself think about it before. (You and Sharon got me thinking this summer.) But... anyway
LYNN 4: ALAN, FEB 2014: To design something [is] to make a prototype, make your corrections and then come back and make another prototype, and test that and make changes. It’s called the design cycle.
MEL-L4: MEL nods, on the same page re: which parts of transcript you refer to
LYNN 4: I was also calling that out because it is so striking as being a very particular notion of design. Engineering design, or maybe industrial arts/execution design.
The "to make a prototype and then iterate" notion? Ah.
LYNN 4: Not problem setting. Yeah.
MEL-L4: Yeah, and some of you (at Olin) specifically called that out as a sub-type of design when you gave your definitions.
LYNN 4: Definitely a part of design.  For me, an odd thing to call the whole of design ("It's called the design cycle")
MEL-L4: (That's one of the reasons why I'm going "aha, this is not going to be the last transcript where Berea and Olin data mix, there's so much!") MEL nods
So you see what Alan's describing of a subset of what all of design could be? (...says Mel with a leading question) Also, note that all these things were back from february, because in a little bit you'll hit some later things from this month, and I think you'll see a couple changes :)
LYNN 4: Yes, for me what Alan calls "the design cycle" is what I might call the prototype refinement cycle.  It's an important design skill.  Just refining prototypes is not *the* design cycle, for me.
MEL-L4: Roger.
LYNN 4: a little bit further down, Alan refers to "the design process" as though it is an unproblematic term.
MEL-L4: ah, i see where you are. "We want to know what everybody else is doing this their class and how are they teaching the design process and communicating that to students..."
LYNN 4: I don't think it's unproblematic at Olin, where I do think we have more consensus about the centrality of user-centered design, we have a party line, etc. It certainly doesn't appear to be unproblematic at Berea :)
MEL-L4: ooh, interesting. could you say more about the problematicness at Olin?
LYNN 4: (I mean "problematic" in the sense of negotiable, pliant, ... not in the sense of "causing problems" per se.)
MEL-L4: right, right. "Fuzzy."
LYNN 4: Oh, I just mean that few of us would say that the referent of term is clearly delineated, objective, etc. Yeah, fuzzy, subject to interpretation, contextual, fluid, ...
MEL-L4: ...interstitial?
LYNN 4: Alan (at least in that quote) seems to use it as a term of art, with clarity, etc.
MEL-L4: (you brought that word up in your first narrative session)
LYNN 4: Maybe interstitial.  I'd be more inclined to say "negotiated".
MEL-L4: Hmm.
LYNN 4: Also I like "problematic", in the lit crit sense.
MEL-L4: Precision of words and all that, Lynn-style :) MEL is also digging into the precision-of-words space here, it seems important
Mmm, yeah. (re lit crit) Clearly socially constructed and constantly renegotiated.
Ok, you highlighted a part?
LYNN 4: This is very content-dominant (though I suppose it could be interpreted as skill-based), and waterfall-y:  Let’s talk about what everybody is doing in their classes and what we would expect students coming out of that class to know so when we get them in our classes we know their background. Then when someone’s coming out of my class and going to another class we know what they’ve covered
MEL-L4: MEL sees that
By "waterfall-y" you mean "we'll do this process of A, B, and C, and then we'll be done"?
LYNN 4: Yes.  It's a software design process term, contrasted with agile, e.g.  I think engineers call the same process gates or something like that.  One thing, then the next, only then the next....Not cyclic, iterated, spiral learning, deepening understanding, ....
Different topic:  This is art vs. technical, but entirely omits the human (and possibly the usability issues):  I’ve been at workshops where somebody would take a piece of paper and write lines on it and say okay that’s a design... [on] the other end of the spectrum you could have sort of the engineering approach... quantitative and scientific.
MEL-L4: MEL nods, re: your comments on gary's stuff
LYNN 4: This:  I would like to say, "Oh Shit, Part Two," but... It was more like, "Alright, Let's Get To It." It was just more of a reality that we all knew was coming, so we sat down and like, "Let's go." And it's been like that ever since, really. [Before classes started], we literally planned enough for the first two days of class. We met that Friday [after the first two classes], planned [the] next week, met the next Friday, planned next week. And just this past weekend, I came out with a three-week plan or at least a trajectory, and I shared that. So now, at least we have a trajectory for the next three weeks, but none of it's been set in stone.
...now they're negotiating :)
MEL-L4: it's so interesting to look at everyone's definitions of design, and how fuzzy they are, and where they place their definitions ("my definition is all of design" vs "my type of design is X, but it's part of a bigger world of design -- which can be fuzzy, or can be defined in opposition, or...")
:) Yeah! Ok, so you're in the co-teaching section now. The backstory to that is 130 is their Design & Documentation class, and all 4 professors are co-teaching it now. (I am summarizing from transcripts that told the longer version of this story, but all the info is public)
LYNN 4: Here, at least what I’ve seen, people were getting lost in the big ideas, but the second we got down to the real thing, everything kind of fell in line.
MEL-L4: MEL nods
LYNN 4: I am curious in that quote what the shared party line was.  Do I get to find out below?
MEL-L4: and the faculty member who suddenly left is, as you may have guessed, the person originally set to teach 130.
MEL looks
LYNN 4: Re:  We’re very practical people. We’re problem solvers. So when it’s time to do the work, we do the work. And when it’s time to dream big, that’s where we might have different ideas.
LYNN 4: remind me to tell you about my (current) SCOPE team :)
MEL-L4: ....you might get to find out what different people *think* the shared party line is a little below... for now... as best as they can explain it... or at least as best as they're willing to tell me. :)
LYNN 4: Ah, here we go:  One is called design criteria.  Design constraints.  And then there's the design cycle.  And then there's something called design intent.
MEL-L4: I found it fascinating that many narratives -- regardless of which school or narrator it is, regardless of which point in time it is -- fall into a pattern of "oh, we were TOTALLY confused then, and we're STILL not entirely done now, but we're pretty good now!"
LYNN 4: FWIW, this is not the interesting part to me (but was apparently important for Gary):  And we just kind of sat there and talked.  And said we'll start using design criteria when we're talking about this.  And we'll talk about a design constraint when we're talking about these elements. So, yeah.  We kind of got on board with using the same terminology when we're talking about certain things.
MEL-L4: (and then a few months later: "whoa back then last time you talked to me, we had NO IDEA, we were TOTALLY confused then, and we're STILL not entirely done now, but we're pretty good now!")
MEL nods. Huh. er, Alan. Not Gary. But yes.
LYNN 4: Yes, you're right.
MEL-L4: It's not interesting to you?
re: your SCOPE team, remind me to tell you about PPI :) probably separate, off-the-record convos
LYNN 4: No, because criteria vs. constraints are, in my mind, largely a question of what you take to be the desideratum (i.e., what your client wants) vs. the pragmatic realities (from physics, e.g.)
MEL-L4: (if you want to hop on audio skype for a few minutes after we're done here, even)
LYNN 4: And, more importantly, because that's not really where the interesting negotiation has to happen.
MEL-L4: ooh. (re: criteria vs constraints, & negotiations)
LYNN 4: I have no particular investment in where we draw the line between criteria vs. constraints.  To the extent I care, it's in what gets included in (one or the other of) these buckets, vs. what is seen as outside the realm of design.
LYNN 4: For example, are human factors or cognitive factors or social conventions part of the criteria-or-constraints space, or are they irrelevant?
MEL-L4: MEL nods
LYNN 4: So for me, the agreement on where to draw the line between criteria and constraints is uninteresting :) This, however, is interesting:  "We're using the same design cycle,"
MEL-L4: it's interesting to me that all the things you just listed -- human factors, cognitive factors, social conventions -- strike me as very "UOCD" concepts
LYNN 4: Yup.  At Olin, we have definitely opted for a definition of design that at least potentially takes these things into account.
MEL-L4: as compared to something Jon pointed out -- and this is my paraphrase/interpretation, not verbatim-Jon -- that maybe Olin is getting too locked into UOCD as the big picture, and doesn't realize that there is even more outside of UOCD... sustainability, etc
Also, it intrigues me (with what you're pointing out about Alan referring to "the same design cycle") that Alan is the same person who said -- back in February -- "
ALAN, FEB 2014: I would predict if you talked to Gary, Mark and Matt we’re going to say very similar things [for their definition of "design."]" -- and now we're seeing that... the "similar things" may not have been quite so similar, compared to how he sees the process of aligning terminology now.
LYNN 4: Yeah....There's surely more, and design at Olin has been (and presumably still needs to be) a highly negotiated concept.  That said, there's a version of sustainability that is reducible to quantitative specification and fits very nicely with a narrower notion of design as spec-fitting.  And there's a broader notion that has to do with human systems and social ecology.  The former appears in lots of more traditional engineering contexts (and lets them say "look at us; we're being broader than we used to be") while the latter is a natural extension of what I've been talking about (for me.  Jon would argue that it's importantly additional.)
MEL-L4: ....that was the most horrendously convoluted sentence ever (on my part, still reading yours).
Hmmmm. (re: what you said about sustainability, is pondering)
LYNN 4: Nonetheless, your convoluted sentence made perfect sense to me on first reading.  Or else I horribly misunderstood it and thought I got it right :)
MEL-L4: I think you got it right, given that I throw sentences like this at you because I remember that you think in similarly convoluted, extended parallel phrases :D
LYNN 4: design cycle:  I think (from Alan) that what they mean by design cycle is what I would call iterative refinement:  Now, I see that and I think our students are going to see that as they progress through the curriculum after they've taken documentation and design and they take the graphics course, which is required, they will see the same thing going on.  Yeah, you're not going to hit this the first time.  You're going to have to do revisions, revisions, revisions.  We do that in the graphics class and we talk about that in the design class, the documentation class. I think all of us will be using the same terminology, the same design cycle or process in all of our classes.
MEL-L4: you managed to split sustainability into two existing Olin categories just now ("spec-fitting," which we do as "normal" engineering... math... stuff -- and then "human systems," which is UOCD) -- interesting
MEL nods, re: your Alan quote just now. I found this part from Alan fascinating: "But I never really saw how yeah, this is parallel to what we're doing in the documentation and design class." He teaches both graphic design (he's a photographer, and teaches photo classes at Berea too) and "industrial arts" stuff -- and has taught graphic design the same way for ages, but this is the first time he realized it
LYNN 4: Sustainability:  I don't think it cleaves neatly into these two pieces, nor do I mean to imply that it does.  I sort-of see it as an orthogonal dimension, with bits and pieces that fit into each of these two categories, and stuff that probably spans/bridges, etc. I think Jon might disagree with that framing, though, and say it is important in its own right and needs to be thought of more as parallel and less as orthogonal.
MEL-L4: and it points to the binary that Gary drew earlier, of design-in-art being different from design-in-tech -- and kinda destroys that binary, by Alan saying "wait it's the same process"
MEL nods and jumps back to the sustainability topic, thinking & reading
LYNN 4: re:  design cycle.  Interesting, because I definitely think iterative refinement and spec-fitting and multiple prototypes are part of design, but hardly all of it (or even what I would call "the design cycle").  This framing omits problem setting as a part of design (at least as I read it).
re:  Mel:  "I found this part from Alan fascinating: "But I never really saw how yeah, this is parallel to what we're doing in the documentation and design class.""
MEL-L4: our multithread convos are always fun to disentangle. I love it. :)
LYNN 4: Yeah, that's a place where I ran right past something that was important to him, and that I agree with completely, because it seemed "of course" to me.
This:  and it points to the binary that Gary drew earlier, of design-in-art being different from design-in-tech -- and kinda destroys that binary, by Alan saying "wait it's the same process".  YES.
MEL-L4: MEL nods -- I figured you did think sustainability was messier than your statement could be parsed to imply, but wanted to deliberately poke at that a little so you'd say that :) (...in part because I'm going "YAY! POSTSTRUCTURALIST DISSERTATION! MESSY MESSY MESSY!")
LYNN 4: Again, I blew right past it as "of course", though I do in fact realize how hard it has been for each of us to get to this realization (if we even make it there).
MEL-L4: :) The first time we spoke, you talked about your own process (or the second time, but I think it was the first) of... wait, I have your transcript, I can find this. It was when you talked about doing HFID before Olin but not realizing that curriculum design, UI design, etc. were all... design.
LYNN 4: In designing (hmmm...thinks about that word, decides it is well-used here) the Olin communications rubric, there was a lot of exploration of the basic framework (ultimately:  clear, succinct, significant claim supported by evidence composed into a well-organized professional presentation) and how it applied to writing (technical, non-technical, ...) graphical  communication, visual communication, oral communication, ....
"it was when you talked about doing HFID before Olin but not realizing that curriculum design, UI design, etc. were all... design" YES
MEL-L4: Found it. Here we go.
LYNN-1: I would identify with design more broadly, my background, before I came to Olin, I had some experience with software design, and, with the design of human-computer interactions, but definitely not led by the user-centered vision.  Very definitely technology-centered vision of design of human-computer interaction. Also design of some very technical things within the software and... computer systems, architecture stuff, hardware design... It is very technical, very much within the space of what I would call engineering design.  It was a very specific design.
I had done curriculum design. I had not, when I came to Olin, seen that as connected to the other design activities.  The recognition that curriculum design is, at some level, design of experience for learners. Something I might have known, but I’m not sure I articulated.  
I don’t think I saw all of the connections I see now. In a lot of ways, curriculum design experience was the most human-centered of all the design I had done, even though I was designing human-computer interfaces. It’s the only field I worked in where the people were obvious.
LYNN 4: Finishing the 130 discussion:  I guess I really hope that problem framing/problem setting becomes a part of their curriculum and their understanding of design.  It's the Woodie Flowers/Bill Mitchell story from one of my earlier sessions.
Yup (re quote from LYNN-1).
MEL-L4: ...it's a different cross-disciplinary realization of "WAIT DESIGN IT IS A THING!!!" than Alan expressed -- edu & computers for you, graphics & tech for him -- but in some ways it seems similar to me, that moment
LYNN 4: I still agree with most of what I said there.
MEL-L4: Ah, yeah. The architecture vs engineering students approach (re Flowers/Mitchell story). Yes.
LYNN 4: Yeah.  I worry that Berea is creating ME students, not architects. Especially as craftspeople, that would be sad. Ask the question, not just create the answers.
MEL-L4: well, i guess the question might be, what sort of students do they want to create?
LYNN 4: OK, need to digress briefly into my SCOPE team.
MEL-L4: MEL nods
LYNN 4: It turns out that I have the team of PMs.
MEL-L4: MEL is curious about the scope team thing
LYNN 4: (Everyone agrees) So they're really good at asking the questions, thinking about the process, ....but getting the work done?  Not so much :)
MEL-L4: oop.
LYNN 4: It's early days, and I have hopes that they will do a combination of monitoring and changing their processes, on the one hand, and hiring/outsourcing to get work done, on the other. We had this conversation earlier this week (the team and I), so this is nothing secret or hidden.
MEL-L4: righto.
LYNN 4: It's just really interesting to me to watch, because they are great examples of the kinds of students Olin produces (not all the kinds, unfortunately :) ) and they are also an example of why you wouldn't only want Olin students in the world (or at least only these kinds of Olin student).
MEL-L4: YES
LYNN 4: I think this is directly relevant to the questions you're investigating.  They're fabulous at meta.
MEL-L4: I think it is, too. But we need people to do the stuff that those people can be meta about.
LYNN 4: Yup.  There's something in their quote collection (facetious, of course, and BTW, they *will* get the project done) that is along the lines of "by the end of the year we will know exactly how we ought to go about doing this project" :)
MEL-L4: MEL laughs. I like your SCOPE team.
LYNN 4: I like them very much as well.  And they will do a great job.  I am just finding it amusing.  And, being good PMs, they heard (and agreed with) the caution. Also, ironic that I am their adviser :)
MEL-L4: (why's that?)
LYNN 4: Oh, I might occasionally go just a wee bit meta myself :)
MEL-L4: ...just a bit, yes :) So i'd like to tie this back to what you were saying about the sorts of students berea might produce
LYNN 4: Just got to this:  GARY, FEB 2014: [You have to] understand your student population and the regions that they were coming from. And the baggage and the hope and all of the stuff that they were bringing with them.  Everything... from my point of view then should be focused on getting the students to where a good place would be.
MEL-L4: (based on what you're hearing about their discussion of "design")
MEL nods
LYNN 4: So that's very *problem* *framing* from a curricular design perspective.
MEL-L4: MEL nods
LYNN 4: Not at all spec-fitting.
MEL-L4: MEL hunts for another quote from Mark that might also be in this vein, but keep going... oh, it's already in there, right above the Gary quote.
"They’re here because they like the school and they care about the students and they care about the mission. If you say we’re working on this for the sake of our students, boom. You have the attention of the room."
LYNN 4: And I wonder whether they've asked themselves whether their students just need to be really good spec-fitters/iterative prototypers, or whether maybe it would be helpful for their students to ask the questions as well.
MEL-L4: It doesn't say it as directly as I'd hoped (Mark quote), but it seemed to be headed in the same direction of problem-framing for curriculum.
LYNN 4: I don't know that I know the answer to that question, because I don't actually know the Berea students.
MEL-L4: ...hm. (re: "whether they've asked themselves")
MEL nods
LYNN 4: I do wonder whether the question is in their conceptual vocabulary.
MEL-L4: ok, now I *am* going to pull a different Mark quote for you -- but keep going while i rummage :)
LYNN 4: That is, they are actually asking themselves problem framing questions (what do our students need?), but they may not realize that such questions are design qquestions.
LYNN 4: (well, they're design questions in *my* understanding of design)
MEL-L4: MEL nods
LYNN 4: and so, when they say "our students need to be good designers", I'm not sure whether they are asking "do they need to frame questions as well as answer them?"
MEL-L4: or that "curriculum design" is also design in the same way "technology design" is, that there are parallels? I mean, they *all* have PhDs in tech education, not just tech.
LYNN 4: I guess I think they've (started to) make the connection between tech design and art design and graphic design, but maybe not (yet) to curriculum design.
MEL-L4: they all have interdisciplinary PhDs that contain edu as a major component, dissertated on that sort of thing, etc
MEL nods
LYNN 4: Mark Somerville has a great talk on the ways to do curriculum design, including the Nike model (just do it), moving the boxes around, the waterfall/gate model, etc.....He eventually comes out in favor of user-oriented curriculum design.  (I think this was an FIE special session, perhaps with John Geddes and Ben Linder??)
MEL-L4: (I found a long quote but you read fast so I'm going to paste it in here verbatim, carry on while I keep copy-pastin')
LYNN 4: Yeah, but edu doesn't necessarily recognize the connection between curriculum design and other kinds of design, especially engineering design.  It's gotten/getting better, but perhaps not when these people were training.
"dissertated" heh
Mark:  You know, we definitely have students that... don’t want to reach higher than where they think they should be
Yeah....this is why you need to help them ask questions. Questions are empowering in a way that answers are not.
MEL-L4: (the long quote is now at the bottom, under a new header called "student involvement" -- and it says as much about me and my biased perspective on student involvement as it does about Mark (Berea-Mark, not Olin-Mark), really.)
MEL nods vigorously re questions are empowering
LYNN 4: These are like Kuhn suggesting you have to wait for the older generation to die off:  GARY, FEB 2014: We had a different makeup of the faculty [before this curriculum revision]. We had a couple of very senior faculty.  So you had people that are somewhat entrenched and somewhat opposed to change.
ALAN, FEB 2014: When [older faculty] retire you get a younger faculty with new ideas and the curriculum is going to change. So those are the major influences for redoing our curriculum.
MEL-L4: paradigm shifting! yup yup yup.
(btw, I wanted to note the time in case you had a hard stop in 11 minutes. I most definitely do not, and -- as you know -- am happy to talk about this stuff with you forever. but i do want to respect your time in case you do.)
LYNN 4: BTW you know that is the midrash (= Jewish equivalent of just so stories) for why the slaves-who-left-Egypt-in-Exodus had to wander for 40 years through the desert (after the whole golden calf fiasco).  Older generation dying off.
No hard stop.
MEL-L4: MEL nods
LYNN 4: Well, when my husband comes home from work, bc we have dinner plans....but that's quite a ways off.
MEL-L4: I've heard some variation of that midrash before, yeah. Probably in a Catholic homily somewhere. :)
MEL-L4: because the older generation was the stubborn one that doubted, complained, etc., iirc
LYNN 4: Yup.
GARY, FEB 2014: I think when you bring young faculty in, they’ve just finished or are finishing advanced degrees. So you would think that they’re pretty in tune with what the profession is doing, but then sometimes you find that they’re somewhat limited in their true understanding of that... so anything they were going to do was a change...
LYNN 4: Interesting.  We are wrestling with whether it's better to bring in fresh phds who are theoretically open-minded (but in fact may be scared to change) or more senior folks (who have the confidence to change but may be stuck in the mud). My personal theory:  it's better to bring in the right people :)
MEL-L4: MEL grins
LYNN 4: Also, this:  I’m going to oversimplify... [there were faculty who] always want[ed] to change just for change's sake.  When you question, "Why are you doing this?" sometimes you find out there’s nothing behind it… the students, the college, the profession, none of those things were even thought about or considered.  It’s just, "This could be cool.  Let’s try this." [In contrast,] I spent quite a bit of time to look at what the rest of the campus was doing as far as other majors, how they had structured their programs and how that was working.  Then tried to bring some of that back to our faculty, and then to bring reports back from conferences…
change for change's sake:  this can be "damn it, I just want to blow things up" or "i am not sure how to fix this but I think I will learn if I perturb it" The first is usually less constructive than the second, of course :)
"sometimes you find out there’s nothing behind it" And sometimes you find out that educational change based solely on research is like driving while looking in the rear view mirror. As the financial industry is fond of saying, "past performance is no guarantee of future returns" (or something like that).
MEL-L4: fallacy of regression to the mean!
LYNN 4: Not that it is a good idea to ignore history completely; just that there's a religion of "do what the research says" that can become fundamentalism, and also that the history may or may not apply.
And of course, there's the last bit of that paragraph, which is about looking at what is working (good idea!) and trying to import it (plausibly good, but relies on being able to figure out what are the crucial parts to import, wihch can be tough)
MEL-L4: MEL nods
LYNN 4: GARY, FEB 2014: I think for me the way I view our major that should be habit of mind sorts of things. (and Alan says the same thing immediately before).  We'd agree (speaking for all of Olin, of cousre :) )
LYNN 4: MARK, SEP 2014: We don’t produce engineers. We produce technology and applied design majors. They can do anything you want them to do and probably better. Do you want someone sitting in the office, running numbers, and figures, or someone out on the line figuring out how to run things efficiently? [If you want someone] on the line... then you want one of our majors.
LYNN 4: Well, I like that, and i also ideally want someone to say that the whole process is misguided (if it is).
MEL-L4: MEL nods. I thought it was interesting he used the phrase "how to run things efficiently"
LYNN 4: Well, it fits the spec-fitting model.
MEL-L4: It does. and the focus on optimization.
LYNN 4: It's Woodie's mechanical engineers, vs. Bill Mitchell's architects.
Questions for Olin:  One question… how have they gone about making sure that everyone that's involved, regardless of their position in the actual teaching, has communicated well within one another?
MEL-L4: which is something I've heard a lot in "traditional" engineering -- optimization gets claimed as an engineering thing too
LYNN 4: ROTFL
MEL-L4: I thought you might laugh at that bit. That's exactly what I told Mark. :)
LYNN 4: (ROTFL about Mark's question) Not necessarily teamwork, but you have all these people working together in the course, and making sure everyone has a voice, everyone has a say, everyone has an equal opportunity, while still progressing forward.
Ah, easy.  Just hire loud people :)
(Not really, of course.  And not everyone gets an equal voice.  We do try to have a culture that helps people to speak up, and that occasionally tells folks like me to shut up and listen...but it is very much an aspiration rather than a reality, I'm sure.)
What things have they done to ensure that process and to keep that communication maintained, while moving the course forward?
Think carefully about the composition of the teaching team.  Try to make sure that the voices in the room are all heard.  Sprinkle judiciously with Mark Somerville.
MEL-L4: Why Mark Somerville (since the Berea faculty won't know him)?
LYNN 4: Awesome listener.  Really good at hearing lots of things, then synthesizing them into something that represents the best (key) parts of what's been said.  Willing to take the time to make each participant feel heard and get broad buy-in. Also incredibly credible and well-respected.
MEL-L4: Took time for Mark Somerville to get to that point at Olin, though. I mean, 12 years ago or whenever it was that you were telling the "Ben Linder! Come Save Us!" story -- Mark Somerville was there, but... was he MARK! SOMERVILLE!!! in that sense?
LYNN 4: Well, he knew a lot less, but in terms of being a good listener and having credibility, yes.  He was a consensus-builder from as far back as I can remember, I think.
MEL-L4: Btw, I will probably bring this back to you for more unpacking next time -- but that will be next time. (MARK, SEP: What things have they done to ensure that process and to keep that communication maintained, while moving the course forward? LYNN, SEP: Think carefully about the composition of the teaching team.  Try to make sure that the voices in the room are all heard.  Sprinkle judiciously with Mark Somerville.)
MEL nods.
LYNN 4: :)
MEL-L4: ...yeah, I do remember that about the Mark (Somerville. Olin Mark. this gets confusing.)
LYNN 4: I'm reading Mark (Berea)'s comments about students vs. alumni, and how the ones with no work experience can't be useful participants in the design conversation.
MEL-L4: the last bit i pasted in was in response to your earlier remark about student confidence and getting students to ask questions... yup, you're there. The long Mark-Mel dialogue.
LYNN 4: I'm thinking about the difference between having the answers vs. being informants and canaries.
MEL-L4: like I said earlier, it really shows my bias as an Olin grad
LYNN 4: Clearly, Berea Mark has the former in mind.
Well, not just your bias as an Olin grad (or at least not just your sense of students-should-be-asked). Also a perspective on what students can bring to the table that doesn't just come from your own experience.
LYNN 4: I'm going to hazard a guess that students at Berea don't talk much about "metacognition".
MEL-L4: hm, I don't know! *makes note to ask Berea profs about that*
I'm guessing (but not with certainty) that the Berea profs would say they want students to *learn* metacognition
LYNN 4: Mark:  And also if we’re going to listen to the students, which I think we should, and I welcome their input, it’s also taking it for what it is and where it comes from.
plus succeeding anecdote aobut welding.
Mark has a clear understanding of what the student in question meant when she said welding as a required course, and he's got a clear idea of why she was wrong (or at least "one-sided, biased").
MEL-L4: right.
LYNN 4: The UOCD instructor in me (and the curriculum designer who believes in ethnography and the role of informants) wants to ask "Why?" Well, 5 whys :)
MEL-L4: MEL chuckles at 5 whys
LYNN 4: Mark:  But I’m not going to gut my curriculum so I can meet what one student or two students want.
MEL-L4: yeah, I think my habit of mind took me there as well (wanting to go all ethnographic on it and ask "why, why, why")
LYNN 4: Yup.  And it speaks a bit to the mindset i am attributing (almost certainly unfairly) to Berea Mark:  curriculum design is mostly about figuring out how to create a curriculum that fits the design criteria/design constraints, through iterative prototyping of course material.
MEL-L4: (also, I do want to note that when I was a student serving on committees like ARB, I definitely didn't realize how... clueless and naive I was, and how much the faculty gently, gently steered me and tolerated me being so... brash and youthful, and ignorant of my ignorance.)
MEL chuckles re: your "mindset I am attributing (almost certainly unfairly) to Berea Mark" bit
LYNN 4: vs. (an Olin-esque) curriculum design is about framing the problem of how to produce students who ... and co-designing a set of experiences that lead to our desired outcomes.
This:  (also, I do want to note that when I was a student serving on committees like ARB, I definitely didn't realize how... clueless and naive I was, and how much the faculty gently, gently steered me and tolerated me being so... brash and youthful, and ignorant of my ignorance.)
LYNN 4: Yes.  Those of us who were students longer ago recognize (some of) what current students don't know. Student input is taken with a grain of salt. And yet, only current students can really provide the perspective of current students.
MEL-L4: (...not that we weren't helpful, not that we weren't contributors and truly respected, re Olin committee students -- but we certainly didn't go into it with the level of maturity a faculty member would, or an older person in general -- I don't think an Olin first-year is any more prepared for committee membership than a Berea first-year, on average; you learn by doing it)
right (re "only current students")
LYNN 4: The challenge is to ask enough questions to get maximum benefit from student input.  Not to have the students design things; to have them co-design.
MEL-L4: The "co" is important on both sides of the "co." Not sole design, but also not "you are the customers, here you are, bye."
LYNN 4: Story about student perspective that may need to be excluded from the transcript, depending on Olin Honor Code rules:
MEL-L4: (I have been poking the HB about unrelated things lately, so I can ask specifically -- thanks for flagging)
LYNN 4: There was once a class at Olin where the professor became convinced that a student paper was at least partially written not-by-the-student.
LYNN 4: Honor code hearing ensued.
LYNN 4: At that time, the honor board had no input from faculty in the decision making process.  (Evidence was collected from student, from faculty, etc.  But students alone made the decision, in a session that either excluded the non-students or maybe was observed by the Asst Dean, who took a VERY hands-off role.)
MEL-L4: MEL nods, that's what I remember
LYNN 4: The students found the accused student not responsible, bc they were able to create scenarios in their mind that explained what the two course instructors could not explain, even though the standard was "preponderance of evidence", not "beyond reasonable doubt"
MEL-L4: (oddly enough, I was just talking with some of the PPI faculty yesterday -- explaining the concept of the Honor Board, and students on committees, etc -- and once again reminded "...oh yeah, wait... that's weird." But they were very excited by the ideas.)
MEL-L4: ...huh. (re: HB)
LYNN 4: I remember the faculty being so very angry, because truth-be-told, no faculty member who was given a couple of key concrete facts has ever thought the student could have been innocent.
MEL-L4: MEL nods
LYNN 4: That is, folks who teach students understood (from a fact I'm not giving you, bc I am not sure what is confidential vs. public) that the odds of this being an innocent mistake were miniscule, while students didn't see it that way.
LYNN 4: After that, they changed the procedure (I think it is still this way) so that there was an opportunity for a (?faculty) non-student voice in the deliberation of academic cases, even though I think the decision is still made by students.
MEL-L4: oh, interesting! so the case you mention was the case that triggered that change in honor board process?
MEL-L4: (and I will definitely check with the current HB before making this bit of the transcript public)
LYNN 4: I suspect it was a combination of that case, maybe others, and a faculty member making a HUGE stink about how this had been, in my opinion, egregiously mishandled.
MEL-L4: ah.
MEL-L4: (but I think this discussion originated in the "student perspectives: they are useful, but you have to take them the right way, with NaCl grains, etc" space -- and it is a helpful story for that)
LYNN 4: And, while I don't mean to be airing my frustration with the HB, the point was really that students *just* *couldn't* *see* what this looked like from a faculty perspective.  The individuals on that particular panel were each folks I genuinely respected (and still respect!) and trusted.  It was a stellar panel.  But the best explanation they were able to give the faculty was basically a student-limited view.
MEL-L4: MEL nods.
LYNN 4: It's one of the few examples I personally have had about the limitation of student perspectives. Well, I think I've reached the end of the Berea reading and the end of my ranting for the day.
MEL-L4: MEL nods, shakes out wrists in appreciation :)
