ROB 3: Great to see you again. 
MEL-R3: I am going to see you a link. 
ROB 3: How are you today?
MEL-R3: I’m doing great. 
ROB 3: I’m a sheep [avatar] in your [Google Doc] window? I see some Lynn material. 
MEL-R3: Unfortunately Jon is not having his first session until next week, right now it is just you and Lynn, but I put out some selections would be interesting to read. I thought we would start with this, read through, think about. I am curious what you make of 
ROB 3: Exactly. I am having the same thought. I of course could react to my own material, but when I look at Lynns it is such a different voice. I would love to read some of that and maybe respond to some of her ideas. Should I start from the top, or is there something you want me to target first? 
MEL-R3: Let’s start from the top and kind of go for it. I broke it up into 3 pages, because I thought it made sense to do it in 3 sections. The first is Lynns little bio and both of you, the design language early on. 
ROB 3: I am looking at Lynns introduction. Probably there is not much for me to respond to there. I will probably skip that little bit. I see Lynn’s first first impression. She is responding to the Olin triangle. 
In the early days of Olin it seemed really important. It stood for Olin for so many audiences outside of Olin and stood for Olin and at the time constant conversations and looking back it is hard to be serious when we talk about the Olin triangle. We all start giggling a little bit because of all the attention poured into this one representation. The original triangle was technology, society and solving problems? I see, entrepreneurship. I don’t remember solving problems but she is probably right. But I remember pretty quickly how different corners of the triangle starting becoming slightly moved in different directions. 
There was technical excellence, sometimes called engineering, and there was a corner that stood in for entrepreneurship and in places it was called entrepreneurship and Lynn thinks it was called solveed problems, I am sure she remembers it right. We were trying to find language to fill in that corner. And similarly it stood for social context or second he had ness (researcher note: I don't know what the actual wording of that last part was). I believe it stood for creativity and the arts at one point. 
It is interesting I am describing this as a smoother process than it really was. There were different triangles active at the same time. It wasn’t as if the whole college smoothly moved from one triangle to another. 
What is interesting, there is this slip age as defining concepts such as creativity or solving problems, or define them as disciplines as entrepreneurship and AHS. How do we label Olin. 
I remember these early discussions and they were interesting. Should Olin really define itself as disciplines. If we do that are we somehow letting ourselves [down] by not realizeing our potential. Come to Olin College, here is the disciplines, engineering, AHS. Some say that sounds like a course catalog. 
So the flip side is instead of that have this triangle become concepts, creativity and design. 
I am saying design, it wasn’t there right away. These bigger-issue words. All of us loved the ideas of putting these big words in there like problem solving. But the challenge is how do you pick them, which ones do you leave in, leave out. 
Soon you don’t have a triangle, you have a paragraph of cool words and it is hard to prioritize them. Whereas you can easily prioritize disciplines. Here is the biggest disciplines, let’s include them all, everybody is happy, let’s move forward. Disciplines you can boil it down to 3 and make everybody happy. 
Whereas 3 big concepts people will always say Oh no you left this one, you included this one which is not important enough. 
Lynn’s, circling all the way back to what she was saying, it makes design is a way of connecting disciplines and sort of this sort of aspirational goals like creativity. We didn’t quite have that at our fingertips in the early days. 
I could be misremembering this but I don’t recall anyone fighting to put the word design on the triangle because there seemed to be other words to be as useful. People championing the word design were also championing engineering and problem solving and they saw designed as covered by those two. She was saying you see language [that was] more typical [of engineering programs], absolutely right. 
In the early days we didn’t appreciate user centered design. They have, didn’t see it as central in the same way as, let’s say, creativity might be, or entrepreneurship might be, which you picture an Olin graduate, will they be creative, they must be, I want them to be out there creating something new in the world. 
Will they be entrepreneurial? Absolutely, responding to opportunities, creating opportunities. That is the kind of the active role I want our graduates to be. 
User oriented design? Useful but in the early days we didn’t see what defined us. It wasn’t in the same central way. 
Now if you talk to us, I see user orienteded design in an exciting way as a form of flexibility, a form of telling our graduates that they will not just trust themselves and the abstract voice of science to define what they are doing. They will respond to other human beings and their needs and desires and wants and that will and part of what they design. 
Okay, all of this came from the idea of the Olin triangle and it is really cool that Lynn brought that up. I had stopped thinking about the Olin triangle. It faded a little bit in my memory, but boy in those early days it was important.
MEL-R3: It is still up there, by the Honor Code wall. It’s kind of faded now 
ROB 3: What was the thing that was kind of faded? 
MEL-R3: The curriculum continuum and the curriculum triangle. There’s this poster, by where they do the [campus] tours. It’s sun-faded there and has clearly been out there for some time.
ROB 3: You’re absolutely right. There is an interesting topic. I am not sure how much it relates to what we are talking about design. Yeah, I guess it does. In the early days Olin was having big discussions about the triangle and what does Olin stand for and so on. We lacked some of these tools and vocabulary to express some of these ideas. We did diagrams for example but our use of diagrams was not terriblely sophisticated, concept maps as away of talking to each other. 
As time passed, we both increased our sophistication, better concept maps and ways of working as a group, we are better equipped and the irony we are less used to do that these days. Almost say, less comfortable. I can a safely say we are doing it less, because we have a curriculum mostly in place. The discussions that arise are far more targeted. We are more inclined to say how are we executing this part of the plan, how can that be improved, or how can the different parts work together better. That is a great conversation to have, very exciting. 
But who are we as a college, what Olin stands for, that is a great question and we are [missed phrase, probably something like "less inclined do do that"], we have spent time doing that. Remember this old model we are building the ship, building the plane as we are flying it somewhere. Right now we are more focusing in the being in the air and flying it. 
Why did I say this? We started talking about the Olin triangle, it would be really fun to revisit the Olin triangle today at Olin. The people here would really have a great time with that. We would start with basic principles and put everything on the table and do some blue sky thinking. That is not exactly the way we did it the first time. It will be a much richer conversation. 
Anybody who proposed such a thing would be politely asked, "why are you having us spend our time, why would you [not] being spending time on something more targeted." 
Occasionally at Olin these days you hear about some proposal to not admit students for one year or give a bunch of faculty a light load in one semester. You hear ideas kicked out which I think is a response to, "Gee we are not asking the big questions as much as we used to, because we are focused on being excellent what we are doing now."
That is fascinating to me, to remember the Olin triangle is somewhat freeing. 
You said sometimes you hear about the learning continuum, and you might hear about that or dredge up a old diagram that explains the way we used to think about things. 
Somebody would say, that’s not wrong, we can improve. However, no one will do that exercise, someone will say let’s focus on the math curriculum, and suddenly you see the 5 fascinating curriculums for math, really dig into it with some advanced tools. Now we are now know what we are doing and we were doing it on the advanced scale. Let me see if there is a question out there.
MEL-R3: I will make a little note. There is an idea in here, if we have time I will come back to it. And the note I am making is "new people, question mark?" 
I am wondering how the things you just described, "Oh we kind of figured that one out, we can focus more on specific implementations in our areas," how that might relate to -- you and Lynn and Jon are doing the storytelling here [in this study], and have been around for a long time, but also there are these massive new hires and they are going to be implementing this story in an interesting way. That is something I would like to poke at a little bit later today if we have today. But let’s go back up to Lynn and see if we can get through that first 
ROB 3: I love your question. Let’s keep an eye on the clock and see if we are circle back to starting people and the new people coming in. As you said let’s shift back to some of the stuff here. I am on page 2, Lynn’s book chapter titles 
MEL-R3: Yes, I stole this prompt from Sally and Sebastian which is a great way to get a narrative overview -- 
ROB 3: Excellent. This is great to see. 
MEL-R3: If you have Rob chapter titles, we will totally get them down. 
RoB: Remember [the] "Rob as the outsider" narrative that we talked about last time. Looking at these some of these are things I am not totally aware of. "We are hiring someone else," I kind of could guess, but I wouldn’t have come up with as detailed chapters, this is great as a conversation starter with me. For me they would be vaguer or higher-level. Again, I was not as close to the center. I would love to respond to her chapter titles. 
Chapter one, she is saying there is some need for design experience. That is fascinating for me to hear. I wasn’t aware of any of the details of that discussion. 
What hit me was, "Oh the engineers are adding nuance to the time line for the engineering skills." 
I would respond to that in the same way to "we need a little more mechE and little less ECE," we talked last time as Olin, there was a lot of times [it was] "Rob, I trust you, take the AHS and run with it." 
Oh, the engineers are using this phrase, "design experience," they are saying this, [we] need it. Sounds like something great, good luck, I look forward to reading about that day. Lynn described design as being a particular (missed word) as some point. 
2nd chapter, "Our design prof is leaving," she is implying there is some sort of stress, we are not doing it soon enough. 
That stress to me, I would not have called that out, stress about a perceived lack of design experience. 
Because to me there were 50 stresses. Constantly people saying we need more of this, we need this sooner, why didn’t we do it yet. Design was folded with anything (missed word), I couldn’t recall it being called out. 
Chapter 3, Ben, please save the day, we will defer to you. The idea of hey, we have an expert, dump all responsibility on the expert’s lap, help them if they beg for help, otherwise trust them to do the good job. So I could say the arrival of Ben, that’s Ben Linder, the great design guru. 
I remember my own excitement to have somebody who came in -- Ben was one of the rare people who made his interdisciplinary preferences available from day one. That is rare. A lot of people when they arrived in a disciplinary box and you found as a bonus they had a great interdisciplinary side to them. Oh, I really like working with those people in that discipline, I will start doing that. 
A lot of people came to Olin conditioned to be speaking to people in their own department, so they had a very discipline centered presentation. Maybe in discussions, you learned they were interested in crossing lines, but when they were up in front of the whole community, it was disciplinary. 
Ben was an exception. He grabbed on to the design from the moment he arrived on campus. He was clearly the design guy, he wore that on his sleeve and we loved him for that. It was a burst of approval when they heard such a thing. 
When he showed up we learned it wasn’t just talk, it was completely truth. We knew he wasn’t a liar. In this case we said yeah, just what we were hoping to see. This guy is able to cross lines and thinking about a bigger competency, he is about design more than any specific engineering discipline. 
It was an easy match for Ben. This was not a complicated discussion, clearly he is going to run it. So Ben did that in chapter 3. 
Lynn mentioned Jill, I actually had forgotten Jill’s role in this. I might have put other people in that discussion who didn’t belong this. Lynn knew this better than I did. 
I would have called in my major, a major chapter would be "the arrival of Ben", made people start talking about things a little bit differently, both because he brought in vocabulary, he would hear him use a phrase, what a great way to express that. 
But secondarily, not the knowledge that he brought, just the fact that he was there identifying himself, was an extraordinarily important [thing] to us. 
The equivalent was to me at the AHS group... I’m Rob the Historian, but think of me as a contextual. I was trained as a historian but I am here to teach creativity. 
If one of us had done that that would have had a big effect. It would have been quite a bold thing to do that, it is unclear you would hire somebody, Olin was looking for disciplinary humanities. 
It is interesting to think about the possibility. That would have started people thinking differently from the early days.
Ben was really the first person who came and said "yes, my discipline is a means to an end. Let’s talk about that end, that’s where the real excitement is." 
The arrival of Ben was very important for different reasons. Part of it was Ben could come into a room and sit down and say, I think we are talking in circles and let me propose, and we would introduce design thinking, he said maybe is would be helpful if we wrote down things on a piece of paper and put it on the whiteboard and move it around. 
He was training us in design processes and that was crucial. He didn’t do it in a heavy handed way. It was the same way I might say, hold it, we are talking past each other, let’s go around the table. I might have a crude suggestion of a technique. 
When Bens turn came his suggestion was all this wonderful thing we wished we were doing two years earlier. The arrival of Ben is crucial. 
Ben and then Chris, the designer from Denmark. 
There is some sort of chapter 3.5. I am not the right person to decide that. 
Anyway, chapter 4, Lynn is jumping ahead, Ben arrives in chapter 3. In chapter 4 we are now having design activities. Having user oriented activities folded in to design courses. 
Chapter 4, when you just read it the way it is written here may not seem that important, "bike messengers," it is crucial. Emphasize it with exclamation points. 
When user oriented design started happening it was transformative. Everyone was aware of, I could describe myself as the biggest ostrich in the world, but I would be fully aware there was something happening in this course that was thrilling.
I might be aware of it because students were coming in my classes were coming in and making comments, or before class were making comments, I would be so fascinated, "What are you talking about? Are you in some club, you are talking to bike messengers, no, no, it is for a course." I was pulled in, you would see displays of their work. 
The introduction of a truly user oriented course was truly explosive, fun and telling stories and having a great time doing something that you could imagine your career. It is not like I ran a scientific club and we get back to work. It was fun as part of our identity as engineers. 
Chapter 4 is here we are we are doing it, design has arrived on the campus. I would say you have got to talk to somebody who has run this course to get the real story and make sure it is not rose colored. I am giving you the outsider -- I wasn’t running the course. I would love to hear the truth of that course and the problems and the things that went wrong and the frustration because that’s the truth. I could just tell you my perspective. 
The thrill became evident. I remember fun discussions, student would teach me. Distilled version. Students were a great transmitter of that information. 
Chapter 4 is saying we are up and running and now a presence on this campus, mostly one course that is taking place that is really putting it out there and then 4.5 when we say we can’t tell you what to do, okay, okay.
Chapter 4.5, maybe that is Lynn’s way of talking about one of the frustrations evident of the students. 
I didn’t notice right away. Really the rainbows and moonbeams hit my radar, but after a while I was made aware that there were some students, some people mentioned that might have been a third of students, that was third-hand to me, a large group of students feeling different levels of frustrations at different points of design activities, "we can’t tell you what to do," so teachers are telling students, "Here is an assignment written in pretty broad terms, we are not going to clarify that assignment for you, not going to give you a recipe or formula or steps to follow."
The reason why we were not giving you those steps is not because we are being snarky, but in fact that is particular of the assignment, we want you to go through the process and figure it out. We are not doing it as a way of faking it.
As a student might say, "why are you not telling me, perhaps the answer is you don’t know and no one knows what is going on."
The pushback is no, no, we are not telling you for a reason.
Lynn in chapter 4.5 is acknowledgeing this, which to be honest still exists. That is a part of design thinking is dealing with ambiguity and being able to chart a space. 
There are exercises that students feel like they are being thrown into the deep water. Too much autonomy too soon. And the teachers have consistently said we know what we are doing, we are giving you all this autonomy for a reason, you can handle it. 
I have never taught that course. I can’t tell you that I would would agree with the way they are doing it. 
I deal with this issue in my own courses, how much autonomy to give at what point in the learning experience.
Students in this one third, I think it is a made up number, I don’t know if it’s actually one third. Students in this group are feeling dissatisfied in this way, also point to my stuff of history class as a great way to handle autonomy. We wait until project two to give a decent amount of autonomy and project 3 to give full. 
Students are citing this as away to deliver this open ended thinking. It would be very easy for us to say "Thank you, we are better than the design people, we will accept the compliment." As much as I love taking a compliment, we have to say, "let’s be fair, apples and oranges here." 
Number one, user oriented collaborative design is always for sophomores. So we have to be different, because we have our course has a lot of first year students, a lot of second year students, some third year students, but a lot of first and second years students. so we have younger students. 
User oriented design is getting students in the second year who have a number of project-based open-ended courses, and therefore it is more of a reasonable assumption we are not going to give you total scaffolding, [whereas] for my students a lot of the students are in development where they are using training wheels effectively. 
The second thing is the size. My course is a enormous, a double sized course, a lot of time to spend in these projects. Some scaffolding early on is important. The amount of space the students have to is explore is so much bigger. An enormous amount of freedom in a enormous space in an enormous amount of time is -- too much uses of the word enormously. 
Third, my course is interdisciplinary, it is two disciplines, two things at once, there is a lot of vocabulary, a lot of skills, a lot of technique to give the students. 
To say that the students, that they must discover all of this on their own, is unfair to do that for a group that is often half first year students. The design amount is smaller, it is not as big an activity as mine. 
These are ways you can see Jon and Rob approaching [things] differently than the design team. There are these different approaches. 
I know the feedback to us is very positive. The feedback we get is often aimed at user oriented collaborative design. The students are making the connection to UOCD. I don’t know why that is. No one ever says "no offense, but UOCD is doing something better you should learn from them," they never say that, they say "We wish UOCD could be like this in a more structured way." 
Jon and I immediately push back and ask why, because we don’t want students to get into "you are better are than them." We want to make it more constructive discussion. 
This whole tangent started from 4.5 where we were looking at students asking these questions. The questions were more about at the start of the UOCD course. 
Chapter 4.5 belongs there and it is accurate. What is interesting is that push back from students could have happened in a non design course, it could happened in biology had the professors given autonomy. It is more of an autonomy issue than a strictly design issue, unless you see design and autonomy as perfectly linked. 
I can see it coming up in different places, it is just that the design people are the ones pushing this ideal, let’s make this student directed, that is where that activity was happening, this self directed learning was being implemented. That where is it first happened and it started other activities like mine. 
In the past though, I have been told the typing is having trouble keeping up. Are we doing okay? 
MEL-R3: Is this a good pause point? Let’s pause. 
MEL-R3: It is so he I to transfer that over, and later on the next paradigm will be better. (Researcher note: this sentence got mangled in transcription, and I don't know what the original one was.) A value judgment. I love being able to talk about the stuff with you on multiple levels.
ROB 3: I am having fun. I can send you a summary I wrote about Thomas Kuhn's paradigm [shift theory]. I have a 3 pager. I will send it to you once we are done. It is kind of fun. 
MEL-R3: Where were we? 
ROB 3: Should we continue along or switch gears at this point? 
MEL-R3: We have got almost half an hour. Let’s kind of continue along, maybe spend 5 or 10 minutes and then step back and see where we are 
ROB 3: I think we made it up to the last two chapters which I think we can deal with together. (mel accidentally cuts off the call, we reconnect quickly)
ROB 3: I was starting to say that maybe we can combine, Lynn has combined 6 and 7 and 8. Lynn is very funny. I was going to lump all 5 through 8. She is winding down her story saying after running UOCD, chapter 5 is responding to this relief, "wow, thanks, exhausting but thrilling."
6, 7, 8, not only did we run this teaching aimed as students, UOCD, but now we as faculty are using techniques. Using post its in our meetings, blue sky thinking, ideation. 
I don’t want to make it sound like we were completely clueless before. We were definitely doing some of this. But now we're being backed by a process, there's some kind of credibily behind this process, it makes people take this process more deliberately, more seriously."
Lynn is using examples of some of the specific vocabulary that could be used in more of an intentional way. Instead of "brainstorming session," that means "let’s all think together," [we say] "generative thinking," it makes people rethink the process a little more, take it more [seriously than saying] "Yeah we need to brainstorm before we start writing things."
Lynn is collapsing a lot in that final paragraph. I would have collapseed all that material too. After the iteration of UOCD people are running techniques in our own curriculum activities and committee work and going into other courses. Lynn talks about HFID, I mention the ways that stuff of history brought in a few of some of these concepts and techniques and other people talked about this in their own courses how some of these concepts trickled into their own things. 
It is a dissemination model, and changing the way we think and talk to each other. I completely agree with this idea of collapseing it. If someone was telling this story correctly they can separate it down. 
I am not sure if the causeal element is as big as the big picture. I like the way it ended, things trickling out and hanging. 
I would like to hear how people think UOCD changed over the years. I am the wrong person to talk about it. I am hearing second or third hand from students. S
tudents currently in UOCD might come to me, "it is much better than it was last year." [I reply,] "How would you know that? You are taking it for the first time." 
It shows how it important it is, students are not just taking the course, they are comparing the experience to other students' experience in UOCD, and that is somehow important to them. 
This is somehow of a rite of passage, students hear about this course before they come to Olin, they hear about it at candidates weekend.
So there's the stories people tell about this course are somehow important.
UOCD is somehow taking technical skils and turning it into human needs. I like the way she's saying that. there's a role for AHS, engineering, AHS + engineering collectively. and we really want more of that over time more of at Olin -- as a single thurst, and less of engineering as two bins over students educational structures.
We're getting a lot of my personal philosophy here, but I think I can speak for a bunch of other faculty, at least a big bunch of us -- perhaps there are reasons to keep things in disciplinary silos early on. 
We would be happy to not have that siloes at all, but we're not completely opposed to the silos, espcially in the early student experiences like in the first year curriculum, take some things, call them math, use what we know about teaching math. Then think about using these tools for something else. We would always like you to have one eye looking forward to multidisciplinary.
Why am I saying this? UOCD is something that very orgaically and in a natural way made that connection. There was never a pushback in terms of, "how dare you tell me to use this tool in this other way." This puch back you might get elsewhere. Some students really like the security of a disciplinary silo. They like going to biology class and talking about biology.
I was occasionly a guest lectureer in other people’s classes. I might have a quick talk of ethics in biology. From what I understand, there was a little bit of pushback sometimes. I will have plenty of time in my future to think about ethics, but never again will I have concentrated time with biology expert.
The second pushback [was] why are you trying to integrate this as all, let me learn bio in bio class, don’t try to mush them together, it is not pure and useful. 
I understand there were little bits of push back from time to time to some of these integrated endeavors. A little bit. Most students find it exciting. Most students would say that’s fun, give me more. There was zero in UOCD, it felt natural and really useful. 
Furthermore, it was something organic and useful. The faculty saw it as something that made sense. If I sat in on biology and talked about ethics and then leave, both myself and the person teaching the course would say, "How useful was that?" 
The students are going back to bio labs and there is not a lot of ethics on bio labs. I have no way of keeping in touch with the students any more. Both myself and the instructor might be, "was that a good use of our time?"
In UOCD you wouldn’t have that discussion. Right away, this is great, fun, productive and getting us where we need to go. 
Once you have that experience as a student you are less inclined to question it the next time it comes up. UOCD was a gate way to integrated activities. 
I can again return to my personal, I had [taught] "stuff of history" class the second year students would be going through the UOCD process, the first year [we taught the class,] students had never had that before. 
Boy was there a different mindset. The second year students were very receptive and appreciative, but the first year [they] were trying to silo my course a little bit, try to break it down a little bit and look at an assignment that Jon and I had intentionly integrated, and some students would go "this is the history part and the matersials science part" and accidently or intentionally de-integrate it, when Jon and I had worked very hard to blend it.
Jon and I explained they were not hitting the learning goals, and the students were, I am blending a lot of individual student narratives, some of them were never aware they were doing it, they would have a good laugh about it, "that is a sign of how much I am used to thinking in disciplinary terms," others would apologize [that] they were trying to boil it down to two different set of tools. 
And a smaller number would say, "I am trying to get good at material science, why are you making me do this at the same time." Very rarely by the end of the semester were they doing that. By the end they had mostly [internalized] UOCD and they were used to putting on different hats at different times. 
I am riffing off of what Lynn wrote. When you get students as a junior, UOCD is in the rearview mirror, it is really nice to have that behind them, so that’s really great. 
MEL-R3: If you jump down to the third page, Lynn’s and your description of student reactions, that ties in really nicely to what you just said.
ROB 3: Excellent. I remember that in her chapter outline, too. I think I made this comment when talking about the chapter outline, when I first give my reaction to UOCD, it is basically things I have heard students talking about, most of it is excitement, a little is complaining, but most is excitement. 
Why I am saying that? I am thinking about -- over time, what do I hear from students? If we pick a specific student and have them talk to me ever week while they are taking UOCD, usually the complaints go away. By the even of the semester I don’t hear many complaints at all. I think they basically get it. Maybe they are accepting it more, maybe they have figured out how to deal with it. One reason or another they are not complaining the same at the end of the semester. 
The beginning you do get some complaints. It will suck while you do it, or often afterwards. "Upperclass [students] prepared me for this, but boy it is horrible. I do stuff, it is random."
At the end of semester, "How is it going?" 
"Oh pretty good, we have a design review tomorrow." 
"That is interesting, a month ago it was horrible, what is different?" 
"Oh, well, I kind of know what to write."
The students sort of blend out their own learning process. Now the story is "UOCD is not bad," or it has become great. It is very different and very interesting to see them go through that. 
I think part [of this is because] students are becoming better UOCD people. At the beginning they are saying "there is one truth, and the truth is UOCD sucks." Later on, I think the students may not want to admit this, they are more thinking with user design tools. "There is one population experiencing it this way and another population experiencing it that way, I am in the first population but I see there is a second way to experience this course, maybe if you see it through the second I would more understand."
They don’t usually articulate it this way, but I think they have drunk the Kool-aid. They are using these tools even on their own experience.
Again, they don’t say it that way, but it is me observing. You used the word "persona." [Now], you broke the class in 3 groups, but on day 3, you said everybody felt the same way, which was your way of seeing it. It is very interesting. 
Lynn is talking about something I didn’t really identify. I think she is totally right. The idea of you would look back and [say] "Yeah I was uncomfortable, and maybe that was for a reason, maybe that was to help me."
I think that is designed into the activity, and I think it is truthful and takes a very stubborn student to resist that [and think] "there is no upside" at the end of the course. "The whole course was designed poorly and terrible and a waste of time."
I use the word "stubborn students." I think some students are clinging to their own narrative and want to say "Yes," at the end, "That was poorly done, those teachers are bad, and I wasted my time, and I am glad it is behind me." There are some like that. But the majority of them say "I am flailing. I think a nice sort of middle ground is -- look at stuff of history," and say, "we wish UOCD is like stuff of history, you gave us this autonomy but didn’t make us as miserable."
Kind of clinging to their experience, "yes I was uncomfortable, shame you on UOCD teachers, but at the same time I would say it served a purpose. I can still say you should have done a better job as teachers but I could admit that it wasn’t all complete foolishness on your part. I could look at stuff of history and hold that up as a model where there is less discomfort with a payoff at the end."
I think there is that going on sometimes. Whereas what I tried to say in before -- stuff in history is working in part because of UOCD. If they are taking it or will take it later, you can’t "say stuff of history should be like UOCD," but there is some element of face-saving. 
[Students can say] "[Design instructors, you should] look at that, I can point at stuff of history, you could learn, you are not perfect," but at the same time [students acknowledge it is good to be uncomfortable, and it is good to have lots of autonomy, and maybe see discomfort as a means to the end of autonomy. 
MEL-R3: We are looking at the clock, we might want to wind down. Any final thoughts?
ROB 3: I think I am pretty happy with responsibleing to Lynns. Remember you flagged down to come back to 
MEL-R3: I think we have time. We can go a little past. 
ROB 3: Can we remind ourselves of what that thread was? Early faculty versus later --
MEL-R3: It actually integrates nicely, another thing I was going to talk with you about in terms of the wind down: The thread was the Olin triangle and how it was a big, big deal in the beginning but now that is later days there is not that need to reinvent the whole wheel and go back to it and people prefer to focus on specific parts. 
That is a fascinating view coming from the perspective of someone who has been there since -- you were part of that big grand invention, the question in my mind, maybe you don’t feel like you need to do that because you have already done it. 
Someone that you hire next year who hasn’t been through that process and gets told, "there was a triangle somewhere, we made it, and now we will talk about the math curriculum you are teaching." Their experience of that might be different. I could see new faculty saying, "wait, wait, wait, no I need to go back to the triangle, reinvent it for myself," maybe, or maybe they don’t realize that’s something they could do.
ROB 3: That is a great line of questioning. You are on to something good here. My take on this is to say is what you just articulated is something that a lot of the faculty discussed from the beginning. We must make those choices because we have got to start teaching courses. We need a vision we can market to other people and drive the curriculum we are going to start delivering. Here is a triangle and now I can tell you where I fit and why my course is a good inclusion. 
But at the same time we are going to be bringing in so many people with fresh perspectives, in what way are we locking them out and what can we do to include them as they arrive. 
And the same thing with the students, how do we make the new people feel like they are equally welcome. 
Since we have been talking about him, Ben was a perfect example, when Ben came in, had the system been setup in away to put Ben in a box, here is an articulated vision statement, curriculum, please pick a small part of that and work on it without looking at a whole, there would have been a horrible loss, a crime. Ben was the sort of person [who said,] in a friendly way, "can we back up and look at the bigger issue and rethink it?" Ben is a perfect example of what could have been lost and the advantages of backing up sometimes saying let’s question and reframe things. 
What is interesting is a lot of faculty were not like Ben in that way. They came to Olin very excited by what they had read already. Many of us tried to write in an open ended manner and faculty would come here taking those as a pretty decent second draft, let’s say. No one came to Olin saying it is clearly fixed and said and done, they got that. But still when they read the stuff, "wow that’s good." 
Faculty were polite and respectful of things. Many of us were leaving space not to be respectful. "This is weird, you are leaving stuff out, could we back up." 
The system was set up in a way to make those conversations possible, but I think the system was also set up in a way that the new people would have to initiate those conversations. We did not go too far out of our way, "what would you do from a blank slate."
We would ask if they have any questions, while having a discussion about something more limited, one of us would more hopefully remember to open it up a little bit.
Usually people are just efficient in their lives. Maybe this is an facet of engineering school, overworked professor, maybe just a human being. It is very hard to say let’s chuck everything and start from nothing. It is more comfortable [to say] let’s take given what is written already, how do I modify.
We tried our best to set it up as open ended system. There were times some of us would say, "time out, anyone want to question basic assumptions." Every one would sort of smile and say "okay, I am okay, let’s be efficient and move to the unknown and start attacking that."
We had a discussion of promotion and I was actually the chair. We said let’s start with a very blue sky and not pin us done to anything before. That was one intentional way, I can’t say in curriculum, that was more in operating practices design.
Usually when doing something like redesigning math curriculum, they will take an open ended approach to math curriculum, anything from the bigger curriculum vision that feeds into math curriculum will be questioned.
But it harder to say, "let’s question the Olin triangle." They will start with what they feel they are allowed to tackle.
Why is this the case? Is it the type of person we are recruiting? In the early years, if you came to Olin and [were] willing to be hired, you had to be comfortable creating something from nothing. Whereas later faculty could look at existing curriculum and courses and be comfortable with that. 
It could be the people, on the other hand, it could be [that our current new] people would be just as comfortable throwing everything out the window. 
I am not sure what the reason is for that, but I know we'd talk it a lot about in the early days. On occasion, some people bring it back up, but usually those challenges don’t go very far. You end up accepting what is on the table and try to go deeper in some new spot.
MEL-R3: I can offer maybe 3 data points that might connect to that. I was talking with two other alumni and we talked about how we had basically gotten in trouble in grad school, all 3 of us, I think it was because of that mentality or assumption that the world was totally changeable. I was repeatedly told no, you don’t do that, that is not efficient. You need to take whatever is there and maybe build on it, like Piaget’s [theory of] accommodation, you don’t redo the entire structure, you tweak it a little bit. It was interesting because all 3 of us identified it right off the bat as something ingrained in us at Olin. 
ROB 3: That is a great data point, actually. You are making me think of this from the student and faculty perspective which is going to start getting into tangents here. 
What you are describing is Olin succeeding, seeing the world as a blank slate, thinking outside the box, not accepting the assumptions. That is thrilling as a teacher for me to hear that. That was always one of our goals, you just described a beautiful process, a beautiful moment for me to hear that the 3 of you did that.
At the same time you described it as very frustrating, getting slapped back down and "do it the way we tell you to do it," we have gotten the attitude across. 
In the history of technology [course] we talk about the engineers on the Manhattan project making bombs  -- "We never questioned these things." We want our students to be aware of there is a larger context. People [are] making assumptions in the world, you don’t have to accept the assumptions, quite the opposite, you have to question it. 
You are describing a success there. You described it as a disappointing narrative, and "boy was that irritating. I got slapped down and all 3 of us felt pushed." Maybe I am reading that into it, in your tone of voice. Maybe as Olin we could do a better job of getting people ready for the real world. Perhaps there is more education we could do. 
Now the second side is, would a current student feel the same way? When you went through it, it was very much a blank slate, and right now we are a plane flying through the air. We are modifying parts, but are we really redesigning up the whole plane, or does it feel like you are riding on a good plane? I am using this analogy to death. 
Would the current students be so conditioned to look at something and question it, or do they see the current curriculum and they don’t question it, and they are less inclined to question things.?I want to know it very much now though, you have got me thinking. 
MEL-R3: If you notice what the reactions at Olin are, when someone new brings up that sort of thing, a new student or professor brings up "Why do we have this course, why do we have an honor code, or a course," is the reaction, "well we have it because of this, here is the answer"? Or is the reaction "that is a really good question, fwoom."?
ROB 3: Let’s say you are the student and ask "why am I taking these courses, why am I doing this research," inasmuch as there might be better way of doing it. 
There is an answer that says, "let me tell you the answer to your question. Here is the need we have addressed here at our school. Here is the way we think the current program addresses that need. These are the operating assumptions."
You can imagine a blue sky, but here are the costs, they are too high. The design process led to the experience you are having now.
You might say, "okay, thank you, that clears up a lot. However I think if we have the same goals we might make some modifications here, and here without the roadblocks." Both parties are interested that you are at least interested in verifying that we are doing things in a reasonable to excellent manner.
In the real world, a lot of people are saying "why are we wasting time having the discussion, take these courses because they are listed in the course catalog that was approved, and it is very hard to change it." 
That is completely not a design process. It been answered, deal with it, live with it or go away. I would like our students to be out there using the design process and hopefully raising these questions with different way. 
It doesn’t mean everything could change, you could innocently get all the graduation requirements waived, I think that is unrealistic, the world doesn’t work that way. But it could work in a way where people are asking the right questions and challenging assumptions and making compromises. 
But using design process as a starting point. I can’t change everything but I can change these things. Perhaps every now and then I can’t make these changes and those are dealbreakers for me. I refuse to participate any further.
That basically to me is the Manhatten project. It is against my ethical values. I am leaving, this is not something I can stand for. 
I want our students to be asking that question and occasionly be walking out and sometimes making design changes, change the process and improve the system.
It is interesting, would you say that in your experience that the design process was not respected, or do you think it was just the discussion but there was not much room to make changes? How frustrating it was for you in your experience? 
MEL-R3: I couldn’t speak for the other students but my impression was -- interestingly enough none of us used the word "design process" in that conversation. They tried it, it didn’t work, they stopped trying it because they wanted to do other things with their energy. I tried it, I got pushed back when I kept on pushing. 
I don’t think it wasn’t the design process wasn’t respected. I think it was very unfamiliar to everybody else. This is in the context of faculty and grad students in my department. It was like whoa, we don’t do things like that here, they just hadn’t thought about doing that.
It was fascinating because in that last section of stuff you said, it was almost like if design is a tool -- then what does this tool do? One thing is that it makes the world modifiable, if you only have read access this gives you write access to it in a more polite way 
ROB 3: It is interesting because we are now sort of describing design, perhaps there is an attitude in addition to the tools you have. The attitude is "everything I look at as potentially modifiable." 
As an engineer you would look at a product. If you are a coder who does not buy into the process, "tere is a lot of code written already, give me a problem statement and I will write a piece of code." That is not using this design philosophy.
Whereas a design attitude, "Oh there is a lot of code already written. I could take some time and question that code, it was written for a purpose, there were needs involved, there was a coder who had a preference of style and technique."
I can unpack. I could handle it upstream level or downstream level. A design mentality is "this is all on the table. It is all possible."
I am mortal, I have to sleep, I only have a certain lifespan. I can’t redesign everything in the world. I have got to accept some of the world the way it is without redesigning it. But I should be able to do an assessment here and figure out which parts are worth my effort and which parts I can rethink and redo. 
It is really fun to talk about it that way. You can think about it bringing in everything Olin tries to do. Let’s go back to the Olin triangle, it is the entrepreneur part. I could redesign everything, what is the most expensive, costs the most, most political, creates upset, versus things that are easier. This doesn’t mean you are this limp noodle, but you are aware. I could have a massive fight or not fight at all. Is it worth the fight to change the first one or not. 
To me that is a very useful process there. Yeah, I could go have a battle. If we are talking about something with ethics involved, you should get ready to have that battle. On the other hand if you are going to have this battle over something very minor, maybe that is not good use of your time. Save your capital for something different.
We are describing looking through this design lens at a lot of different challenges. They give you these tools for certain challenges and something about Olin college is that is a particularly powerful discussion. Are you going, "my academic life is changing, I talked with Rob aobut this course requirement. I can get this changed in my academic life. But hey maybe my sports club can change the way we do things too. And maybe the rest of my world can change."
Part of it is you are asking "can I make changes, are changes possible." And design comes in. And you aren’t asking can I make changes, now you’re asking how can I make changes, and the "how" is design. Where do I start? Do I start with what exists now or the blue sky? When do I start, at which point? Do I start with what I think, or other user opinions, a big opinion question, or a group of people, is that useful? We go from "should you change the world" and "can I," to "how you change the world."
This is beautiful about design, simply talking about mechanical design and a student would have a very hard time connecting that. A big leap to me, an uncomfortable, challenging leap to make. The way we try to do it at Olin is make that leap much smaller. By modeling, again walking the walk and not just talking the talk. 
That is interesting you didn’t use the term design. I don’t think a lot of us at Olin always use the term design, but we do use language from design. It is there, that to me in a nutshell is the power of design, the beautiful power of this tool as seeing the world as writeable instead of just readable. 
MEL-R3: That may be a good stopping point there. Okay, thanks.
