ROB 5: Very good, okay. So this is the... Now is this... I'm just trying to see, is this the text from Mark that I've seen already? With...
MEL-R5: Yeah.
ROB 5: But now Lynn is commenting on Mark's text. Okay, so here's Lynn... All right, so let's start at the beginning. Mark's question, so he had this question to us, and at some point, some of my thoughts are gonna be in here as well? 
MEL-R5: Yep, probably when Jon gets to this in a couple of days. It'll be Mark's question, Lynn's answer, Rob's answer, things like that...
ROB 5: That is so exciting. Okay. So now we could start going really meta, so I could start commenting on Lynn's comments to the comments, right? So that's... This'll be fun. We might get lost in all the levels, though, Mel. It could be exciting.
MEL-R5: It'll be great.
ROB 5: Okay. Let's see, Lynn is talking, just hired a lot of people, very funny, okay. So let's see, think carefully about that teaching team, sprinkled with Mark Somerville. Wait... Oh and wait, Mel, so you actually asked this, is that right? 
MEL-R5: Yeah.
ROB 5: Where it says, "Mel: Why Mark Somerville"? 
MEL-R5: Yeah.
ROB 5: Oh good, so these are... See, I didn't realize that. So you're a part of this discussion. You actually say things and then you get an answer to that.
MEL-R5: Yeah, there are a couple of places later in the prompt where you'll see that my voice coming through very strongly. I had mixed feelings about that, but it's in there.
ROB 5: I think it's great though. Well this is... We'll see. But, right now, you said three words and it led to all of these good prompts here, right? So, let me remember... How do we make sure everyone's in... Everyone who is involved had communicated with one another? I remember talking about this last week, 'cause I was saying I could take Mark's question on different levels and I'm pretty sure that he's... Again, remember he's teaching in a team with people, who you told me, were basically the people teaching the course were pretty much, the whole department. Was that correct? 
MEL-R5: Yeah.
ROB 5: So course communication was equated in his case, with basically institutional communication for the most part. Like, "If we're talking about this course, we're also the people who will shape larger responsibility... Larger discussions and larger issues." 
And that is, now that I'm thinking about it, we should actually call attention to that, because Olin is tiny. You may not have noticed this, Mel. Olin is not a large institution, but even though there is only 40 of us, it still means you can get five people who are responsible for one course and there's 35 people not talking about that one course, who yet are shaping other things that eventually will feed into that course in some way. Because most aspects of the curriculum end up connected in some manner or other. 
So the point being, even at a small place like Olin, you've got conversations talking place where everyone can't be involved in everything. You're leaving things out from... You're leaving out some of the synthesis that would have made things better.
ROB 5: He's kicking it up a notch. Mark is saying, "I've got five people teaching this. We're also eventually gonna talk about the program. It might be two months later when we're talking about the program, but we're eventually gonna be doing that. You know what, the way we talked about this course was interesting. We wrestled through some issues, we solved some communication challenges. Now that we're designing our major, let's build upon that learning." 
At Olin, there are times when you wished that could've happened. Like you could sometimes see a well-oiled team really communicating effectively and the reason is, 'cause they've been through the fire. They've dealt with some tricky, convoluted issue and solved it. Along the way, they figured out how to talk to one another. Then you put those five people in a faculty meeting, where they're now a subset of a larger faculty meeting and the rest of the people can right away tell, "Wow! There's something going on there. Those five are on the same page. They're really working effectively."
ROB 5: But yet, the rest of the other 35 of us can't just jump in, and do that as easily as they do it. You have to back up and reform that vocabulary and get more ideas on the table. 
So Mark is in an interesting position here. It's nice that he's posing questions to Olin, but I think in some ways, Olin can learn from what they're doing, the fact that you're really getting everybody in the room. But it's a size issue. It's not just a... We are aware of this sometimes, but it just is not feasible to have 40 people in the room at the same time. 
So Lynn is talking right? Lynn now... Now we're finally making our way up to Lynn's comments. She is talking about how to get people to listen, but you know and I think her first thing was very honest from her just saying, "Yeah, how do you make people, you know, how do you ensure that communication is maintained?" She's at first saying, "You need to make sure that people can speak up, but at the same time, the people who are speaking up too much, aren't talking too much," right? 
ROB 5: So the flip side of everyone speaking up, is to a degree, and then you stop speaking up 'cause you're blocking other people from speaking up. So that's her first comments, right? Which I guess makes perfect sense, right? That's a nice, general comment. 
And then, when you got her talking about Mark, she's using Mark as a representation of just a lot of these great characteristics. Of all of this stuff that she's talking about with Mark, I would really say, he's a very good listener. I think he's not alone in that. There are a lot of very good listeners. 
I think that what she's saying about him being a good synthesizer is to me, where I think he stands out. So if we're using him as a model, I would point to this idea of, some people who are able to conduct this synthesis, is very useful. 
Actually, I was just in a conference call where we were talking about different types of listening, right? And there was one type of listening where you're really, "in the moment." You're really appreciating the person's story and you're really paying close attention to it.
ROB 5: Then there's a second type of listening where you're meta-listening, where you're up a level saying, "I'm hearing your experiences and I am connecting them right away to something else that we're trying to do." So, you might be telling me one thing, and you're excited about the moment that you're describing to me. But it's my job to take it, to abstract it from the details of the story, from what I would call as a historian, the narrative of the story, to jump to this level of synthesis.
ROB 5: And it's useful to have a framework in mind. So I think Mark's best skill, this is where he really stands alone, is that he's always the guy who will... When he's done listening, people will draw a Venn diagram or something, or draw a chart, right? And say, "Well, what I'm hearing is these five categories... " And right there, you're getting synthesis in some type of really digested, actionable way, that is what's gonna make all these stories into something that's useful.
ROB 5: I keep using the word "actionable." So you don't need everybody to be doing that. There's only so much of that, that could happen. You want some people to be in the moment, but, to have at least one person who's able to think about what you're listening to and what the bigger picture is, and draw that connection, that is really key 'cause it then draws everyone else into the discussion even more.
ROB 5: So that's why, I remember Mark said... Actually, which Mark... Not Mark Somerville, by the way, there's not a... Mark from September 2014 is saying, "How do we ensure that there's communication that's being maintained while you're moving a course forward? What do we do about that?" 
And I think the answer is, you need to have discussions that are in the moment, where you're talking about something that just happened in your class and you need to have that shared experience, but you need every now and then to step upwards, and say, "Great! So we just had these shared experiences, what are the take home messages? What are the categories of students that we just encountered? What are the categories of teaching styles? What are the curricular issues? Whatever they may be, let's flag those things so that we might all forget the narrative, but still have something useful that we take forward."
ROB 5: And I think that makes these communications really powerful, right? 'Cause you're not just sharing stories and then getting back to work. The stories are part of your work. The stories are filling in frameworks, revising patterns, right? You're doing stuff that moves forward in time. To me of all the stuff Lynn just said, that's the key.
ROB 5: A lot of the other things she's saying are great, they're very useful stuff that I would just put in terms of good communication skills, right? Be good listeners, make each participant feel heard, get broad buy-in... I think those are all wonderful things to say. There's nothing incorrect about any of them, they're all correct. I'm just trying to look at the key thing here that's not merely a communication textbook but is actually, "This is how to make forward progress when you're sharing narratives." And I think there's, we need even more of that at Olin, you need that all over the place. And again Mark's one of the people very good at that. I think Jon Stolk is really good at that, too, by the way. So I think he's as good as Mark.
ROB 5: Jon is always thinking of diagrams or frameworks or... Some people who read educational literature, I think, tend to be very good at that 'cause that's what basically a lot of educational literature is, someone saying, "We've crunched the numbers. We've done a lot of studies of these narratives and hey, we've got a framework here. Here's a theory. Here's a system of processes you might wanna take. Here's a categorization for how students learn."
ROB 5: So that's the same sense of synthesizing, distilling, and coming up with bigger meanings. So I think once you live in the educational literature, you're able to take a specific narrative and treat it like a mini, real-time version of an educational study and just say, "Wow! What we're learning is generalizable in this way." And that makes people feel good. I think when you're doing that, you feel like your work has meaning. You feel like, "Hey, I just lived through this experience in the classroom and it's informing a larger process. That's great. Let me do more of this. Let me be more intentional about the way I go forward."
ROB 5: And that, to me, is how you build communication. You're almost like your shared educational researchers and not only teaching the people in the room. And I hope it's coming across and I'm not trying to demean teaching the people in the room effectively. I think that's critical. Nor am I trying to take away from having good communication skills. I mean, those are so important, as we've seen. Okay. I think I've mined that one quite a bit. What do you think? 
MEL-R5: One note on that, you were mentioning that Mark and to a lesser extent, Jon Stolk, making frameworks, like emerging frameworks from the data on the fly, almost? 
ROB 5: Yes.
MEL-R5: You also did a version of that last time, but within our priority, coached that, but you looked and said, "Mel, this is paradigm shift. Mel, this is technological systems." You put frameworks on it, too.
ROB 5: Yes. That's an excellent point, Mel. See, and what's interesting is that I'm still... I would call myself an "emerging educational researcher". So I'm reading the literature, I'm internalizing it. I think anybody who's doing this educational research has one part of them that's saying, "I'm a teacher. I know how students work. I'm gonna continue teaching and reacting to students as I see them." And the second part of them is saying, "Oh, the literature is giving me techniques and understandings and principles." And there's a set... There's a time when you're trying to meld those two things, right? 'Cause at first, you might... So I might go read an educational article that tells me what to do, and then I go into the classroom and I respond based on my teaching instincts. I just do whatever I was doing... So this might be what I've been doing for the past 10 years, or it might be just reacting on the fly, without being intentional, and then later I say, "Oh, what am I doing? I had a chance to apply this great stuff I've just read about in that article but I didn't."
ROB 5: And I think that there's a time when a lot of people entering the educational research field, they're still making sense of these two things, the theory and the practice and coming up with your own approach to it. I'm still in that spot. Someone like Mark or Jon is closer, right? Especially Jon. In this case Jon is the one I would put in the forefront. He's really internalized that educational research. So off the top of his head, he could just come up with five different quotes and say, "Oh, let's look at the Rogers framework," or "Here's this Intrinsic Motivation Theory that applies." Whereas for me, I'm still working on making those connections. For some theories, like Intrinsic Motivation, I have internalized it, for others, I'm still processing it.
ROB 5: Now what you've just mentioned was very interesting, Mel. I love that you said I brought in paradigms and technological systems. Those are history of technology frameworks. Those are things that I've had even more time to be comfortable with. So, when I was first reading about paradigm theory, I was just trying to understand the vocabulary, just like, "What is this guy saying?" And then, afterwards, it's like, "Okay, I understand what he's saying. It's really interesting. I don't know what I'm gonna do with it, but, at least, I understand it. If someone asks me a question about it, I can respond intelligently." And then you get to that final level where you can say, "Oh yeah, paradigm, I'm seeing them everywhere. I really get it now. I believe it. I've really had time to digest and process this and now, at the drop of a hat, I could just bring up paradigm theory. And, I could bring up a piece of paradigm theory. I can twist the theory a little bit or I could match something up. It's not a perfect match, but I could still make it work 'cause I really get it at this point."
ROB 5: So that's what experience is. And, again, we're taking, we're going back to my grad school training, something that I've had many, many years to really work about in many different contexts. And it makes sense that in the educational stuff, that educational theory is something I only encountered at Olin several years into my job, after Jon and I really started writing articles. And so I have gotten it, and it's again, some pieces, I've just grabbed onto and embraced and really thought hard about, and other pieces, I'm processing right now. 
And that's what the best experience should be. When you have five people in a room, in theory, you should have five sets of these frameworks. Five people are bringing their own perspectives and their own most comfortable, larger frameworks, to bear on the same common problem. And if you could make that happen, it's a beautiful thing.
ROB 5: And I've been in rooms where that happened. So there's times when I'm bringing up paradigm theory, or tech systems, or one of many other things, and the person I'm teaching with is bringing in their structures and frameworks, and each of us are just thinking the other person is some sort of wizard, right? We're each saying, "How did you do that? That was like magic. You brought this theory here and you took the five parts of the theory that worked and you didn't worry about the other five parts that don't work and you had to massage it a little bit, 'cause it wasn't a perfect fit. And, wow! You just did that?" 
And, meanwhile... So, if someone says that to me, I'll say, "Please, it's just paradigm theory. What's the big deal?" And I'll say, "But what you just did was mystical. My goodness." And so, that's where it's really this case where the sum is greater... What's the saying? The sum is greater than the equal... Than the total of its parts. I totally butchered that saying. But where you're saying, "We each are bringing something to bear on a common problem and you add together our frameworks. And, wow! Are we able to take this apart, and learn from it, and understand it."
ROB 5: And that's what a team should be able to do. And then the real beauty... I would say the only really magical part of it is, in the end, all five of you were doing it for each other's frameworks as well. You know, Jon Stolk might talk about educational, we talked about paradigm theory and I eventually will buy into his theories. And I can quote back what he's talking about, about hierarchies or things like that. And we all have a Venn diagram that one of us made up on the fly, that now all of us believe in, and we're all applying it in all these different cases. That's when you've created this common understanding.
ROB 5: So, it's part identity building, but there is an intellectual part of it as well, where you're trying on each other's perspectives for size. And, Mel, I hate to say this, but you're trying on each other's paradigms for size. I'm gonna just go right back to my old word there. Right? And say that, you're saying, "Gee, how about about? Mark Somerville views the world this way. And what do you know, Jon Stolk doesn't consider a problem solved, until you ask the question in this manner." Right? 'Cause remember, part of a paradigm is the way you're allowed to pose questions and derive answers. And they might both be saying, "Rob, I know just what you're gonna say. And I think the stuff you said last week is right. And let's say it for you, Rob." And I'll say, "Hey, how about that? They get me now." So that's part of the shared experience.
ROB 5: It helps to have academics in the room 'cause part of what I'm describing is a very intellectual process. Even just using terms like "frameworks" and so on and theories, these are things that academics tend to be very comfortable with. How we each do it in our own discipline to some extent or we've encountered it in grad school at the least. So the more you can get an academic to use those academic muscles on a communication problem, I think, the better off you are. So it's not just you're an academic 'cause you know these formulas. You're not just an academic 'cause you've memorized these parts of the textbook, but it's because you have this methodical, analytical way of thinking. And I guess, if you could do that in an open way where you're welcome to other people's ways of thinking, then you've really got something valuable.
ROB 5: As I'm saying this, Mel, I'm figuring out there's a version of this that's really nightmarish. If you have a bunch of academics who each just see the world their own way and that's the end of it, then you've got a problem. Then that's worse than not having academics in the room, right? 'Cause now you have the opposite of communication. You just have stubborn adherence to principles and this would not get very far. 
I would like to think that that kind of problem, that people who are being brought into this team teaching model, will hopefully be a little bit away from that model of single-minded thinking, so I'd like to think... But again, that's a lot of the change process that's so challenging in education these days. Some groups aren't like that. Some people really are entrenched and that's a real problem. That's a culture shift. You have to then really start gently introducing them, the validity of other people's views and, you know... So that's a bigger problem, I think. 
And when Mark said this paragraph here in September 2014, he was saying, "We have people in the room who are trying to communicate. How do we make that work better and how do we spread it and make sure that it keeps going?" So, kudos, Mel. I like what you said just now about paradigms.
ROB 5: Should we go on to the next thing? 
MEL-R5: Yes, so the second page. Look at it briefly. Think of it as a warm up for page three. So we'll take two and three together.
ROB 5: Okay, very good. So, let me to just see through... So page three is Student Involvement. Okay, page two, "Students are seeing the messiness of something co-taught." Okay, so page two, Gary is saying, "Students peeking behind the curtain, seeing the course design process might be getting in the way a little bit." Okay. Let's keep going. So now I'm reading page three. I'm really processing this, Mel, so I'm reading it carefully just to make sure 'cause there's a lot going... And in a second, I'm gonna stop reading efficiently and start talking, but I'm really trying to get this 'cause he's getting at some key things here. So let me just finish this page here.
MEL-R5: Yeah, there's a lot of material. This is a long, long, long one.
ROB 5: Okay. So I've read to the bottom. This is where I see your part of this discussion here, and it's a good thing, right? You're really prompting things. Okay. So let me back up to the top of page three. So, it's an interesting headline. Looking back now, Mel, that was beautiful. Page two is a warm up for page three. I love it. 
So sticking with page three, so you could see Mark really wrestling with this and there's even a little bit of a shift in Mark on this page, but the key is right. So starting out, what he's saying is completely reasonable, right? So, he's saying at the beginning, "Yeah, if I could have... " So he's saying basically, "I would love to have student input." So very admirable. And, "If I could have a choice of student input from a student who has experienced a lot and has a wide perspective versus a student who has a limited viewpoint 'cause they haven't been out there yet", using his words, "I'd pick the student with the most perspective."
ROB 5: So pick a junior over a first year, pick a senior over a junior. Maybe even pick an alum over everybody. So he's kind of starting in that spot. So just very reasonable, saying, "Hey, the more you've witnessed, the more feedback you can give." And you could see how the later example he gives with welding might play into that. So a student comes in on day one, does five minutes of welding, and might quickly say, "I think everybody should weld all the time. Make it a required course." 
And he's saying... And that's not exactly that. I've noticed, Mel, that I've warped it. That's not what he's saying exactly, but you could imagine something like that happening and a teacher stepping back and saying, "Okay. You have a limited viewpoint. I see that you want to do that, but that doesn't mean we make it a requirement for everybody.
ROB 5: So that's what he's saying here, "So we can't gut the curriculum just to make a few students get exactly what they want. You need this bigger picture." So I get it, he's coming from a very good place, they're very reasonable. And like him, I've heard... 
And at Olin... So you might say, "Oh, Olin students, they're different." But didn't he say something like, "Students come with a very limited viewpoint." Someone might make the argument, "Oh, Olin students though are great students. They have a better viewpoint." Not so. I've seen exactly this. A student comes in and is very convinced that the whole world sees things exactly their way. That's what 18-year olds do, right? 
So there's something exciting about that. To be honest, I find that very touching to see that. There's good in that, in doing that. Anyway, he then is jumping to this... He's then circling around and talking about, "How much flexibility do we have? We have to be committed to that. Who should we bring in? Whose voices are relevant? Whose voices can't we listen to?"
ROB 5: And then, I like some of your thinking out loud statements here, saying, "What would it take to make students useful in this conversation and would there be something interesting in that?" So what I'm taking from this, and I was coming at this; before I read the Mel comments, I was having a similar thought saying, "What is your goal as an educator here? Is it just to teach these skills? Or is it to teach these larger perspectives?" 
And what I was just discussing... I almost said, "What we were just discussing", but I realized I'm the only one talking right now. 
So what I was just discussing was a student coming in with a very self-centered view of the world, they're saying, "Okay. I like this, therefore, it's a positive good, therefore, everyone should do it. The perfect curriculum is doing everything that I like doing at this moment in time. Five, four years of that would be great. If there's something I don't like doing, there's no reason to put it in there." I've heard that a thousand times, right? 
ROB 5: I think that's very common. The more passionate a student gets, often, the more vocal they get about this. And I actually, I honestly find some good in the fact that they see that. I think there's real motivation and there's real passion. 
This is different from the student who would say, "I don't care. You tell me what to learn. I'll do anything you say." This is a student who has a viewpoint, who has identified a preference, who really wants to do more of the things that interest her or him, right? 
And there's a lot to be encouraged about that. When I hear that, I get excited. When I hear the student say, "I think everybody should do what I'm doing." To be honest, I'm hearing somebody who is crazy enough to think that they might be able to change the world, who really believes in their viewpoint. I see real power here. So there's a goodness there. I don't wanna just stomp it out and say, "Your views mean nothing. You're only 18 years old. Stop thinking that you have the right answers."
ROB 5: Not at all. I really love that. That said, I also see a student who might shoot themself in the foot when they go into the workplace or into any sort of collaborative environment, and might just walk in there and say things, just make statements along the lines of, "Well, obviously, we all feel this, the following way." And they go on to state their personal opinion. That's a way to alienate people. 
And actually, I've heard faculty say that. I've heard faculty at Olin say that. They say, "Okay, I think we all agree", and then they will state their exact opinion. And everyone else in the room is really annoyed at this point 'cause you're saying, "Hey, you're just warping what we say to be carrying out your agenda. I distrust you now." And there's too much of that going on in the world. I think it's going on in politics and all these different venues.
ROB 5: So what I mean is, there's a real educational opportunity here. So if we're talking about what I would see as the way to go forward, I think there's a chance for a win-win in the sense of getting students to the point where they are able... 
And I mean current students, not an alumni, necessarily. Alumnis are great, we should involve them. But there's an opportunity to get a current student to a position where they can be a very wise listener, they could be a very... They could be able to assess things that are happening in real-time and value their own perspective and viewpoint, state it accurately, stand up for it. That takes guts to say, "I think this is valuable, therefore, I'm gonna advocate for it, I'm not gonna back down." 
But at the same time, agree, that there are other viewpoints and goals in the world, and listen to those as well. I think that's hard and I think that's a way to do it, but in doing so, I think you get great voices into the design process for your program and you are educating your student in a really valuable way, you're doing something really critical.
ROB 5: So maybe I can give you a couple of examples, Mel. One thing that... So this happens all the time at Olin. I can give a personal example that someone like Mark might find interesting. In a lot of my classes I have a feedback session. I used to do it at the end of every single class. Sometimes for the sake of timing, I do it once a week or actually sometimes not even that often, once every two weeks or something, where I just run a feedback session. A lot of people do this. Oftentimes, the feedback is silent. You might say, "Everybody write down some ideas on a piece of paper and hand them in." I like to do feedback as a dialog, where I say, I'm gonna just put out a prompt or I'm just gonna say, "What's working, what's not working, everyone raise their hand and you're gonna talk and I'm gonna just listen. I'm gonna write things on the white board."
ROB 5: And this is really hard. There's times when I feel like a punching bag, when there's a lot of people just criticizing. There's other times when I feel, where I'm biting my tongue because you're just hearing a lot of these limited viewpoints we've been discussing, where a student's just getting up, saying, "Yeah, obviously this reading was terrible, you should never have assigned it, it's very weak." And I'm dying to stand there and say, "Why did you think it was terrible? Do you think it's just you or is it everybody? Could you articulate your metrics?" 
But I bite my tongue. What's wonderful is that I am, more often than not, greatly rewarded for being silent because a student will get up and say something like that and just say, "Yeah," say the equivalent of, "Yeah, we should all do welding all the time 'cause I love welding." Someone might say, "Yeah, of the three readings you assigned, the third one was the best, you should just assign that in the future, assign three readings exactly like that one. Next class, let's do more readings exactly like these readings".
ROB 5: You hear this kind of idea and then someone else will raise their hand and a fellow student will say, "Please don't speak for me, I don't agree with that whatsoever. I think your favorite reading was my least favorite reading. I wanna do more of reading number one." And then you have two people looking at each other, feeling a little bit shell-shocked. 
And this is like a case, by the way, Mel, of paradigm shifting, where someone is saying, "Hold on, you mean, it's not just Rob, the old man, who likes that other reading? Because, of course, he's gonna like that 'cause he's anciently old and he's a historian, so he's kinda weird. So it's not just this kook who made a mistake by assigning that reading, someone my age sitting in this class thought it was valuable? The one that I think was not valuable? How could that be?" And then you see them, "How could they not see the gorgeous beauty in the reading that I loved? We should all be just getting more of those."
ROB 5: So it becomes less this idea of teaching Rob the 80 mistakes he made in picking the readings, and more a case of saying, "What makes a reading a good reading or what makes it a bad reading? And what do we get out of reading? How do we get value out of a reading?" And I'm listening sometimes in this feedback session thinking, "This should've been half the class today. This isn't feedback for my next time I run the course, this is a very in depth discussion of the readings that we reassigned for today's activity."
And so, over time... So it's funny now, Mel, I've actually, in talking through this, in talking this out, I've articulated one reason why I do a little bit less of these feedback sessions now, than I did five years ago. It's because some of it is actually happening in the course discussion. I just realized that for the first time now, Mel. It's funny because at the same time I was realizing I needed the feedback on a daily basis less, because I was running the discussions more in this open-ended way where I would say, "Everybody, Reading 1, good or bad? Discuss."
ROB 5: And so, right there, that's like taking a little feedback on the spot, right? And the students will say, "Oh, I hated it," and I'll say, "Does everyone hate the reading? Should I never assign it again?" And I have to build up someone's courage 'cause it's very hard when someone says they hate a reading to stand up and say, "I loved it." That takes real guts. 
But I've gotten better at facilitating the discussion, to make a student feel comfortable doing that. So I could gently ask the person who hated it, to explain why, I could have other student's feedback on those reasons without personally attacking the first student. And this process is really valuable in terms of getting at the real questions you should be asking about a reading. 
If we substitute out curriculum designs for readings, I think we're back where we started this question, where Mark was saying, "How do we get people involved in talking about a curriculum?" And when someone's involved in the curriculum, it's very easy for them simply to say, "Oh, I took a course last semester, hated it. Don't teach a course like that ever again, teach the opposite kind of course. On the other hand, I loved welding, loved it, teach tons of welding."
ROB 5: And I think that the more you have someone, in the moment, giving that feedback, yes, you're getting this negative... So the more of this off-the-cuff response you're going to get, and I would argue, it's good to capture that. It's very valuable to do that when you've got your... Your passion is high, when the stakes are high, versus an alum who could look back in a more reflective detached manner. I wanna get some of that fire in the discussion. I think it's good. If someone's furious about an activity or just thrilled about it, they wanna take tons of it, I wanna capture that when I'm designing a curriculum. 
But at the same time, I do not wanna just... It's like you're driving a car, you don't wanna be swerving it back and forth across the road based on this random vote that's being taken in the moment. I think there's a way to manage that discussion, so that you're saying, "Oh, I'm getting a lot of passion here. What is underneath it? What are the elements that made this good? Can you imagine why that was in the curriculum in the first place? Why would somebody have put it there, even though you hated it? Can you see at least see the intention for it? Can you help me articulate that?"
ROB 5: And so, this process, I argue, would get a lot of good out of it by co-opting the immediate participants rather than saying, "You're a little too young, you're a little bit too in the moment. I'll talk to you in two years." So, I think there's a real advantage there. 
And again, I totally get... I'm not trying to knock him down 'cause I'm totally getting where he is coming from, and saying, "Look, I've heard tons of this stuff. 'Cause yes, I've been up there and I've been pummeled around and I have heard suggestions, that I know immediately, are never going to happen because I understand political realities or accreditation issues, or whatever better than the students do." 
Or I might say that, I might be thinking in the back of my mind, "I'd love to talk to you in a year from now." More accurately, "I'd love to have you right now talk to your older self. And wouldn't it be great if you can talk to the alumni version of yourself? I have a strong feeling you're not gonna agree with what you're saying right now, if you were in the future."
But even then I still wanna hear it. I think there's gonna... 'Cause there's gonna be future students who are expressing that exact viewpoint and if we just ignore it, then we're gonna constantly have students come in to the program not getting why we're doing things or feeling frustrated or something.
ROB 5: And so, it is better bring them into the discussion right now, with whatever limited viewpoint they have, and see how they could, how we can communicate with them, which arguments work with them, which don't work with them, which things have they... Which of their experiences are working for them, in the moment. 
So even though they might have a limited viewpoint, certain experiences are resonating, let's look into why those are resonating, why are the experiences not resonating, even if I think they should be. Let's talk about it. So I think there's a great value there.
ROB 5: And the last thing I'll say, Mel, is 'cause I wanna hear your... I know you've got lots of feedback right now. This is something that's not quite a framework but it's something interesting that I stumbled upon almost by accident in setting up my science fiction course. Science fiction writer Orson Scott Card, I think you might know about him. He wrote a book called "How to Write Fantasy & Science Fiction," and when I assigned it, when I first looked at this book, I thought it might be minimally useful. 
But he has one really interesting part in there, where he talks about this idea of a wise reader, and Orson Scott Card uses the analogy of playwriting, 'cause he used to be a playwright, and he said, "When you're an author of a play and you have your actors get up there on stage to play, as the author, you're allowed to hide behind the curtain and look at the audience, and what's really cool is, audiences never lie, right? While the play is going on, you can look at them and see their reaction and it is a 100% honest. There's times when people are on the edge of their seat, they're gasping, they're laughing or they're crying, or whatever you're doing in the play, they're responding to it in a certain strong way. Then an actor will suddenly say the next line and 50 people in the audience will suddenly shift in their seats and look at their watches and clear their throats or pickup their program or something. And it's a 100% honest, right?"
ROB 5: So you just have this sense of response, right? And this is so valuable, right? He sits there. Orson Scott Card is able to sit there and take notes on his script and figure out, "Wow! What happens here? Something changed. Then there is a lot of analysis that's going through. "Was it the actor? Was it the writing? Who knows, right?" There's a lot of analysis but, boy, is this honest? And then he says, after the... 
And he had a funny part, where he says, "After the play, suddenly everybody becomes a liar, they all walk up to you, they tell you how brilliant your work is, right? Everything is totally phony afterwards, but in the moment, it is honest." 
And he said that, "The thing is, when you're writing a short story on the other hand, it's a little bit different. It's hard to say, 'How did you react to that sentence when you read it?'" Right? So, it's a lot more difficult.
ROB 5: So he talks about trying to educate people to be what he calls "wise readers" so wise, W-I-S-E, where, can you be a reader who's not just in the moment, appreciating the story and thinking about this cool sci-fi thing that you're reading about? But can you be up, aware of your own responses as you go through it? So that we can discuss it, maybe make notes or whatever, just be thinking about it.
And he said it's a very hard thing to do. You're taking yourself partly out of the experience of just immersively enjoying the story, because you're becoming aware of your own responses. And he's saying it's a hard thing to do, when... He said that, he calls it, "A terrible price to pay," because he said, when he trains some people really to be good at this, they never stop doing it. So they're always kind of narrating their experiences and they might be watching a movie and they say, "Boy, I wasn't really into the movie 'cause I was aware of how I was responding to it." 
So he really talks about going meta here as a mixed bag, but he's saying, "Being selfish for a moment as the author, I need people to pay that price and to do that and to be a wise reader and to give me that feedback 'cause that's the only way I can learn and correlate what I think I'm doing, with the response its getting."
ROB 5: And I could see some elements of the wise reader coming in here, right? In terms of an educational challenge to say, "We have students, they are participants in their education. Every students would love to be just fully immersed in it, right? And not really worry about what's going on, just be learning every minute of the day", and we're saying, "You know, as a student, and potentially as a future educator or just as a person who's gonna be learning throughout their life, part of the education process is this meta awareness of the education process, 'cause someday you're gonna leave this educational environment, and it'd be great if you could make... If you could educate yourself or be aware of how you learn. 
And that same process, I would argue, is helpful for curriculum design and revision, and part of what we should be doing as educators in the students' best interests. 
So, it's a lot of work, it's tricky, it sometimes feels impossible. For a first year student, it's really really tricky. But I still think that there is a win-win here, that we're heading towards. And let me catch my breath there, Mel. Let me know if anything that I said seems like we could drill it further or if you thought that was just fine as is.
MEL-R5: So, wow! I'm going, "Oh my God! This is gonna be so good to analyze later." Part of my brain is doing that, that simultaneous analysis that you were talking about. (chuckle)
MEL-R5: I love the Orson Scott Card book analogy and the trade-offs of being in the moment versus analyzing, and the subtlety and the maturity and the time it's gonna take to get to the point where you can do them simultaneously, where you can have that experience, and be in that experience and still retain the ability to think about it and articulate it, perhaps later.
ROB 5: Yes, perhaps later. By the way, nice use of maturity, by the way. I didn't like that whatsoever. I think there is a maturity angle to this. So I'm glad that you just called that out. I was not really articulating that. But yes. 
And so that's where, when Mark in this interview was saying, "It's hard to do that with first year students," there's some truth to that. It is hard to do it with first year students. So I get that. 
And that's part of the maturity. So part of it is, we're encouraging maturity and part of it is we're waiting for this maturity to be present, right? That certainly helps it. 
But yes, and you're right too, to say that there could be a time delay thing, "Enjoy the moment. Be in it, let's not ruin our lives. But be able afterwards to use your memory and back up and think about it." So part of it is that aspect as well. There's a memory aspect, too.
MEL-R5: There is one person... And this is me doing exactly what you just described. In the moment and then stepping back and going, "Oh, that happens." 
And so this realization came when I was talking with Lynn about this transcript in her fourth narrative session. And I realized, "My gosh, my voice is super strong. I'm here and it is so, so obvious to me, that I'm an Olin alum. And that is where this paradigm is coming from. 
And you had asked me, possibly during our first or second session, how it was to have graduated from Olin, gone out, do I notice things? And I brought up this story about myself and Juliana and David Boy talking about graduate school and the culture shock of going, "Are we the only people in the room thinking this way?" Of looking at the design of the environment and going, "How could this change? How could this be better of a learning environment? Of the social structures of our universities?" 
I am not articulating this particularly well, but, sort of realizing... You and I talked a bit about how there is a sort of Olin way of thinking and that we have learned to see the world through that kind of lens, of applying that kind of design thing to everything.
ROB 5: Yes.
MEL-R5: And through community service and so forth, gotten used to the privilege of being able to peep behind the curtain, expecting to be made co-designers in this. And so I saw that, running all the way through the dialogue that I was having with Mark and going, "Well, I may be bludgeoning him over the head a little bit with a viewpoint that I should not impose." Interesting.
ROB 5: That is very interesting. And I'm curious to see how Mark's group evolves forward, like if they start getting this attitude as well. Part of the Olin... I love what you just said, Mel, 'cause you got me thinking about this Olin group, and it's true that most Olin students, almost all in the early years, and even today with a more polished curriculum, more sort of in-place curriculum that's rolling forward with some more momentum, most students are still very aware of what you just said. 
This design process, not just in their technical work, but design in the course, in the educational arena. And saying, "Oh, my courses are the result of a design process. Okay, how do I feed into that design process? Am I a user? Am I a co-designer?" S
o I think a lot of our students are always at a minimum saying, "Let me try and understand what's going on behind this course." And the question is, "Why? What's up with that?" And I think part of it is, where I said, "Peeking behind the curtain," the two of us both keep saying that. And it's a very good phrase for this, right? 
ROB 5: 'Cause there's a lot of that, saying that there's... You can imagine education as something where there's a stage of some sort, there's a curtain and there's an audience. And there's the curtain being pierced back and forth. In the early days of Olin, we just didn't have the luxury of having that curtain. To have a curtain you need certain things. You need a separation, you need some... 
It's funny. The things I'm gonna say are gonna sound very insulting to Olin the early days, right? 
But you need a plan that's in place. You need to have a beginning, a middle and an end to your story. You need a little bit of distance from things, very little of this we had. 
So there was very little curtain to have in the early days 'cause someone might run into class and say, "Okay, I just figured out what we're doing today. Let's do it." So it's a sense of saying, "Oh, Okay. Wow! I'm getting the first draft of this." 
Or the feedback would often... Faculty would just say things like, "Okay, let's do feedback today about what happened. By the way, please don't give me this piece of feedback 'cause I know it didn't work 'cause we just made that up as we went along."
ROB 5: So you often get these statements here, where you're saying, "Look, I'm lifting the curtain because I need to do that as a survival mechanism. We are just racing ahead." 
And it wasn't all accidental. I'm describing things where we were overworked and doing things in the last second. That was a part of it. 
Some of it was intentional where we would just say, "Hey, I wanna try this. I don't know if it's gonna work or not. Let's give it a try." 
So part of it was intentional, but some of it wasn't and we just didn't have the luxury for that. 
And in the early days, I think some of that got ingrained into Olin where after... By necessity, not having much of a curtain the first time you run it, the second time, you have a little more luxury to build that curtain, and to say, "Okay. I now have the sense of how this lab is gonna unfold. I can give you a story with a beginning, a middle and an end. I could be a little bit more detached and I don't have to co-op the students as much anymore." So in other words, "I don't depend on their feedback anymore but I'm still going to ask for it."
ROB 5: So it got into the culture where it wasn't a necessity anymore, it was a choice. And that became even more of a beautiful thing. Because now, it became more authentic. We're saying, "Yup. Now you really will help me design something. I can actually sit back and tell you why I'm doing things. I could tell you what I'm gonna do two weeks from now. Last time we didn't do the first time. 
The first time, it's like saying, "I honestly don't know what's gonna happen later this semester. We seem to be running over time and everything. We may or may not get through this stuff." There's a lot of that going on the first time. 
Later on, we could say, "I know where we're going to be later on this semester, but I would still like you to tell me what's working and what's not working, and I would still like to see if we can improve it together as a team." 
So part of this peeking behind the curtain is awareness of the curtain and awareness of the educational process, awareness of the whole environment and I think that's one of the big things.
ROB 5: Like you just said, you're having a talk with your friends afterwards about what grad school was like and all this, and Olin clued you in. 
This really is, this idea of being a wise listener, right? Just saying, "I'm alert now to certain techniques that might be happening, certain tendencies and assumptions going on in education. Those were brought to my attention now. So now, when I see them in the background, I pick them up. Whereas if they were really subtle in the past, then I might just miss them. They might just be blurred together as part of the educational experience. But I've been trained to look for them." And I really think that's great.
ROB 5: Then when you start doing it in your job, that'll be even better because, at least, when you're talking about you and Juliana and was it David? By talking about grad school, you're using educational assessment tools on a new educational environment, that's good. That's good, but it's also somewhat low hanging fruit, saying, "Yes, Olin trained me to look for educational techniques and assumptions, and I'm in a new educational environment where there are different educational techniques and assumptions."
ROB 5: Someday, you might be in a location, you may or may not be in an environment where people don't think they're doing any education, where it's just some sort of, you're producing something, you're doing customer service, whatever you're doing, you're building things, and you don't really see education. You're not using the educational language anymore 'cause you're really saying, "Okay, we're not here to teach people. We're here to get a product out on time," or, "We're here to start a company and to manage people," or to do you whatever you're trying to do. 
And what's amazing is when you're in that setting and you're picking up on educational assumptions and techniques, that is truly wonderful, where you're saying, "Okay, you're not a professor, I'm not a student. We're peers on a project. But you just gave a mini-lecture and you're seeing your position as one of an authority figure and the way you posed the question to me, predisposed me to answer it in a certain way. And do I like this? Are these okay? Are these acceptable techniques given that we're trying to do whatever our goal is?"
ROB 5: And that is an absolutely astounding thing to be able to do, to be able to plan again. I'm articulating it with words. You may not have that discussion where you're saying, "Oh, you are predisposing me, blah, blah, blah." That's Rob educational language. But yet, you might be able to in that situation and say, "Hold on a second, why are we asking that question at this time?" Or say, "Wait a minute, wait a minute, hold it. That's your view. I have my own view." There's a way that this comes out in the work place, that is directly benefiting from some of these skills, these skills or practices or attitudes, call it what you want.
ROB 5: And at Olin, when we talked about knowledge skills and attitudes, they're talking about, "We're gonna make life-long learners," like all these great words, cases like this are where the rubber hits the road, where you're really saying, "At Olin, I may have learned technical things and formulas and problem-solving techniques, but I also learned about the process of collaboration and the process of dialogue and the process of learning that underly in all of those things. And I could articulate them and bring them out."
ROB 5: That's what we're trying for, not every student does that. Notice we're doing a self-selected group, you, David, and Juliano, are people who are very interested in education, might become educators, so it's self-selected group, it's very intentional with the three of you. But I would like to think that for everyone else, it's at least in the attitude. It's at least somewhere in the air, in your perspective and maybe it's better than that, where people have different vocabularies about expressing these things.
ROB 5: So this idea of being the wise reader, and being aware of things really works on many levels. Yes, it affects your ability to assess an outcome like a document or something, and you're aware of it. But it also affects you moving through life and being aware of the learning that's taking place and the dialogues you're having and being able to contextualize them and say, "What is the goal? What is fair about the situation? Am I supposed to be posed questions in this way? Is this effective? Is it achieving our mutual goals?"
ROB 5: It's surprisingly easy to lose sight of those things. It's really funny how you'd like to think everybody is goal-oriented but too often, you're just in a channel, you're in a job or you're in an environment where there is something right in front of you and as human beings, we walk towards what's in front of us. We take one step at a time and it's easy not to be aware of the larger context. 
And what you just described and what we're talking a bit about the wise reader, are these clues of always sticking your head up above the rut you're in and saying, "Is this good? Am I heading in the right direction? Are the methods right? Reality check, is my team effective? Are we communicating?" That's so important to be doing all the time and so many of us are not, that the more practice you get, the better.
ROB 5: Alright, maybe I should do talking of sticking my head above the rut. Mel, how are we doing here in terms of time and objective, should we move forward in the document a little bit or, what do you think we should do? 
MEL-R5: This is fantastic. I would like to move to the next page, because this is Lynn's response to the section you've just read.
ROB 5: Great, okay, fantastic.
MEL-R5: Okay, and we're not gonna get through the entire document. I just wanted to make sure we didn't run out of material, although I'm not afraid of that with you at all.
ROB 5: You've got lots of great stuff here. This is beautiful. So, okay, so this is... Lynn is exactly responding to what I just read, fantastic. Let's see it. 
Oh, I like her use of the word "canaries". I'm gonna keep reading, but I'm just liking that right now. That's interesting, Mel. I think Lynn is coming at this, in some ways, similar to what I just said. I would be willing to think here. She's using terms like... First of all, the canary is a very interesting one because... Let's read that sentence again. "I'm thinking about the difference between having the answers versus being informants and canaries." So, that's interesting because... And she's saying, "Berea, Mark has the former in mind, saying, 'Some of us know what's right and so on.'" Being an informant.
ROB 5: Being a canary is a weird term 'cause that's someone who is a subject. So you're saying, "The canary in the coal mine. We're gonna watch... We're gonna observe you and see how you respond to this environment." Right? And the canary in the coal mine is a very sad one. I think that's how she means "canary", but for all I know, she's gonna have some totally different metaphor of canaries that makes me look like a fool. But I am assuming probably correctly that she's saying, this is someone where, "You're a student right now. You're going through this experience, and we're going to witness you. We're gonna study how you're reacting. Hopefully, you're not gonna die because of fumes, but maybe your other responses are gonna be valuable to us, giving us interesting information."
ROB 5: And that's where we could say, "We can ask you questions. We could take polls. We could do all these different things and treat you like a subject and you're teaching me and then I'm gonna take this data and go crunch it and do something with it and hopefully come up with a better course next time," or something like that. It's an interesting word. I wasn't quite sure how Lynn was folding it in there, 'cause she seemed to be almost like...
ROB 5: Well anyway, I don't have to analyze her thing too much. But saying that there are different ways we can build upon what students are doing and her sort of concern about saying, "Do we, as instructors, have the answers?" Or, "Do we wanna go to the alumni, who, because of their better perspective, have more answers now and can answer some of these questions?"
ROB 5: And like I was trying to say in the first one, I love this thought of building this metacognition sense, of thinking about what you're thinking, knowing what you're knowing, learning about how to learn. I really like that direction of going, from what I said before. I feel like I'm just gonna just repeat myself, but I think we're helping educate the students by doing this and we're helping them to educate us, in terms of what the curriculum is really achieving and how it might be better.
ROB 5: So, I really do think that there's cases where those... What we might think of as very limited perspective students, are the ones who can teach us an enormous amount, about what we should be doing. 
Instead of just saying, "Well, you're not in the right place to give me feedback." I'm saying, "Well, you're in exactly the place of the person who's receiving the course." 
I shouldn't even say receiving, "But you're exactly the subject of this course. You're a co-participant in this course. The more I understand you, limited perspective and all, the better we can really work together and figure it out. And if I decide that one thing I have to do is change your perspective, or broaden your perspective, if that's one of my conclusions, then I still need to understand your current perspective to be able to do that."
ROB 5: However I'd like to think, at least in my own case, there's very little changing, intentional changing perspectives and that makes it sound like there's a right and a wrong answer but it's just much more of a case of just talking about it. Just being Socratic sometimes, or just saying, "Oh, if you see the welding course in this manner, how would you see this other course?" 
What would we do if a different student came up and said, "I hate welding." How do we respond to them? "Oh, you think they're an idiot. Okay well, what if they think people who weld are idiots?" And just turn some of these ideas around and I say from seeing this happen, not just from some nave belief that this would lead to good stuff. I have seen that happen.
ROB 5: Actually that's a part of what I said earlier that, we didn't dwell upon after I said it, but having those feedback sessions, where students are responding to other students' feedback, were so miraculous for me; it was so easy for me to bite my tongue after a few of these took place, because it was infinitely more valuable, to have a student debate another student, than to have me, what looks like, debate that student. Me, telling a student that they're perspective on a course is incorrect. Me, saying that, it's wrong for so many levels.
ROB 5: On the one hand, there's a power imbalance. Just to what degree can the student really argue with me, knowing that I'm the one running the course at the moment? So the whole thing is weird in the first place. 
Secondly, there's a big danger of total eye-rolling; of the student hearing me say something and saying, "Well, of course, you would say that. Like I said, you're old and you're in this discipline already. I'm young and I'm not in that discipline. So why does your perspective matter to me?" So already, the student doesn't really see my perspective as being indicative of anything meaningful. 
There's other reasons why they might just say, "Look Rob, I don't wanna hurt your feelings and now you're reacting defensively to what I just said, so I'm gonna back down and apologize." And usually, the truth is, the student really didn't wanna hurt my feelings. And so now it's a discussion of feelings, instead of a discussion of what was more important, where they started was much more valuable than, let's be diplomatic about things.
ROB 5: So, me, participating in this dialogue is just so wrong in so many ways. At least at the start, compared to students, it's almost like if I could've been invisible and if I couldn't even have been in the room at all, they'd not even know I was there, it might've even be better. Just have a bunch of students debating, "Hey what just happened in the class? Why? What do we think should happen next in the ideal world? Forget about what Rob is or is not able to do, what would we want to happen?" 
If you pose a question like that, a lot of people would just say, "What a dumb waste of time. Who cares what the students would think? They're gonna just debate something and come up with something completely unrealistic and impossible and worthless. Why are we asking the students? We should ask the educators."
ROB 5: But in fact, I've found the students are already moderating each other. They're learning from each other as they debate this question, and it's just so interesting. 
Some of what Lynn is talking about in her response, this meta cognition, is starting to come out. When you hear your fellow students saying something, it is very easy to make the step of saying, "You know what, you're seeing this a certain way." So you go from a statement to an assessment of the statement. You go from, "Oh, I heard you say these words," to "You're saying these words because of this mindset, because of this perspective." Or even to use the word, "Because of this paradigm that you're in." 
Then from that step, the next step is, "And I am saying my words, because of my perspective and my paradigm." So instead of me just jumping right in and trying to go from a baseline to, "You, what's your paradigm? What's your perspective?" We sort of have this midway of saying, "Can you help others see their paradigms?" And then, eventually maybe they'll talk about your own perspective and you might start to witness this, and you've now moved to something of a meta level.
ROB 5: And it was just a wonderful, heartwarming thing to see the students correct each other. It might start in a passionate, less heartwarming way where they're just fighting with each other but pretty quickly they're saying, "I don't wanna fight with you. I'd rather that we figure this out." 
Maybe that's the engineer in them. Who knows? Maybe that's the part of them that was buying into Olin about being a place where you think about your education. 
But for whatever reason, they would very quickly move as a group from these quick value statements of, "This was great. This sucked," to this reason of, "I think this sucked for these reasons." And then you get to, "Here's why this was great, and let's connect it back to why we're all here in the first place. What are our goals? What are our common goals? And why would the person... So, the thing that I think sucked, did it really... Was it really that bad or were there elements of it that were bad, but maybe correctable or was it actually quite good and I'd made a mistake and I should give it a second try?" And any of these outcomes are possible.
ROB 5: And the students were just so much better in getting to that, than I was. Once I got out of their way, it got better. 
Now, that said, I don't wanna be too modest 'cause I think that there is something to be done for creating a culture where this discussion happens, setting it up in the right way. There does have to be some trust built. 
And there would be ways of doing this where you're making it not possible, not effective, where the students just feel like the whole activity is kind of a setup or there's a wrong answer and they might be penalized. 
There are possibilities for sabotaging this before it even begins. So I think there was something done. I know, I've actually done it wrong at certain times, so I've learned from this so I've grown as a moderator. 
But I think as an instructor, that you can make this discussion happen in a way that you're not participating in, and then insert yourself back in later. I think that it is nice to close-loop and say, "Wow, that was a fantastic discussion last class. Let me give a few thoughts about it. I think that's great, too."
ROB 5: So I don't think the instructor never participates. Maybe that's an important thing to mention to Mark and everyone, that we're not saying, "Let the students run the show and as an instructor, the best thing to do is shut your mouth." That's not true. There is a place for the instructor and our perspective and experience is valuable, as would an alumni's be. So that would be great. 
But, that said, you don't just wanna shout down the person who's living it and say, "No, no, no. You'll see this in four years. Boy, you'll understand it so much better later. You're making mistakes right now." That's not helping. You really need to give credibility to what they're doing 'cause it does have value and meaning, and there's a way to inspire that. 
Lynn is talking about things like this here, this idea of iterations and prototyping and trying to get at some of these why questions. Lynn, I think, is really talking about a lot of the same things that I'm talking about. She's taking more of a UOCD approach to it, I think, which is good, which is helpful for me to see. 
Okay. Should we move forward again now or do you wanna call attention to anything I just said? 
MEL-R5: Well, first, I want to call attention to the time. We've got about 10 minutes on the clock right now. And since this is our second to last session, I wanted to step back for a moment and... 
Well, okay. I want to just step back for a moment and do two things. The first one is just ask you if you had any thoughts on what you wanted to do with the last one, which we'll do probably some time in November. And one of the things that I wanted to do is... You had some questions for Berea last time and I would like to loop around and get at least one or two of their perspectives on that, so you can see their responses to your questions? 
ROB 5: Yes.
MEL-R5: Other than that, I can think of about 15 different possibilities, so...
ROB 5: Wow. I'd like to hear some of those. The only one that I came up with is a version of what you just said 'cause I was just thinking... I've never seen... Let's say, the word "Rob" on one of these transcripts, and something that I said and then somebody responding to it. 
So if there was one opportunity, like in our last session, to close that loop; and it doesn't have to be Berea, it could be Jon or Lynn or something. But if there was one opportunity for me to see my things interpreted in some way, maybe questioned or challenged or someone building upon it, that might get us, again, using spiral learning, a higher spiral. So that would be the new item that I would... 
And I'm sure you have... You said you have 15 other things, right? So some of those will probably thrill me and be new as well. 
But the one that I was coming to before this session even started was that one, by just saying it'd be great to see if what I'm saying is helpful to others, if it's leading them? I could see it many ways. They might disagree with what I said. That can be interesting. They might do what I do often, is take what I said and run with it down a tangent, and that would be fascinating for me, so I would enjoy that.
ROB 5: Or they might build on what I said. They might say, "Yep, I like what Rob said and here's an even deeper thing to say." And then, I could maybe try and take that even deeper. So anything they give, I would love to go for. 
And I don't know. If you don't have that in place, we don't have to do it. Or if you just have... Even just seeing them respond to my questions, that's a great version of this, right? Because that is reacting very directly to something that I was asking about, so that'd be fine. 
Even if their response is, "What a stupid question." But I think that'd still be interesting for me. It would help me structure my next set of responses a little bit differently. 
So I'll put that out there. I feel like every time you come up with this great plan, I get through half of it and waste all of our time and filling in a bunch of half completed things from all these other talks we've had. So any of those that you think we've missed in the past... Right now, I saw prompts we didn't get to today. So any of those that you wish we had gotten to would be fantastic. You could just say, "Rob, we always run out of time. There's some stuff at the end here we never got to. Let's get to it now."
ROB 5: I trust you at this point, Mel, so I think that we should actually not try to get you to step out of the way, but put you in the line of fire. So we should say, "What does Mel think Rob should respond to?" 
I think that would be really cool 'cause you have the... So this is like a way for it, even if you don't have time to get their take on my word, just anything like that, you might know enough about them by this point to be able to point me to something, and say, "Rob, this seems to contradict what you said," or "This is a different way of phrasing what you said." 
Whatever your take is, I'm trying to say, it has a lot of validity to me and I think that would be a very productive thing. 
And so, I'm happy to bumble around like I always do. I think that's been working by the way, Mel. So I'm putting the bumbling on me 'cause I think that I have this clumsy way of reading stuff and I remember things out of order, and you've given me enough raw material that I think has worked great. If you would like to target me more next time, I would trust that very much. So those are my two quick thoughts about how we might handle next time.
MEL-R5: Okay, thank you for that vote of confidence. I think I will attempt to do that. I noticed several specific bits that I will point at you and we will probably have a shorter plan next time, but a juicier one. I think part of what happened this time is I went, "Oh, my gosh! There is so much Berea stuff. I hope he reads really fast." (laughter)
ROB 5: Well, your way wasn't that. You gave me a lot of stuff. Hopefully, I read it pretty fast, but notice I didn't respond to all of it. 
So you basically put the agency on me, where you said, "Rob, here's a lot, grab whatever you like." And that's just what happened. The stuff we didn't touch on. I read it, I skimmed it, I didn't really stayed much, and so, good for you. You let me mine it, for where I thought I could weigh in, and that's just what happened, but I'm saying next time I think you're allowed to make me talk about a specific thing. 
So that's allowed too, right? Because especially now, like on session one or two, that might not have worked too well. Whereas, but by now, you are completely ready. You could say, "Rob, you've talked at length about this, but never in this way. Read this thing and talk about it." Or "This is contradictory, make it less contradictory." Whatever you say I think is gonna be awesome this last time. So I encourage you to do that if and... 
Remember, you've got an objective in mind, too. You're trying to pull value out of this. So point me toward something that will help you, be as selfish as you possibly can, I think that'll be great. So I'd be delighted to help you in that way.
MEL-R5: Thank you. I would tone up these stuff as only those. And let's note also, for the record, that this is the dynamic that is very familiar with me from my student days when you were actually my professor at Olin, of, that you can see going back and forth very deliberately and very visibly.
ROB 5: Oh, good. You remember that? Okay. That stuck with you.
MEL-R5: It has, and not just the, "Oh, hey, the professors gave us agency", but also we can give it back. It's not a one time transfer thing and also, there are ways of making that transfer explicit and deliberate instead of accidentally just having it happen. I may not have articulated it that way when I was 19, but I was not... (chuckle)
ROB 5: Now, this is really good, see, Mel, 'cause, I'm actually remembering some of... I remember you from, "What is I?" Was that our only class together? It might have been.
MEL-R5: Yeah.
ROB 5: Only class. I remember you, in particular. I remembered doing, we did lots of feedback in, "What is I," 'cause that was a very new course, very rough, lots of things we were figuring out. It was team taught. Lynn and I were trying to feel each other out, and I remember you are one of the great feedback people and I remember that sometimes you would give feedback saying, "Hey, for next class, we could do this," and you would mention something that I would just think, "I am not capable of doing that between now and Tuesday," so I would just hear this, and it was a very interesting thing. I would see all this passion and see this brilliant idea where I would say, "Next year, I could do that for this time, for this part in the semester. But next class, I can't. What do I do now?" 
I asked for feedback, I got it. The class is all nodding. They would like to do that. I don't have enough time or whatever. I don't know the materials well enough to do what was just asked of me. What do I do? And the only response really was to be honest about it. So I just remember the only response was to say, "I would love to do that, but I can't. I wish I could."
ROB 5: And the thing is, so I remember being stressed sometimes. And it wasn't just you but it was everybody, the whole class was like this. They would just be throwing stuff out there and just saying... And I remember looking back saying, "Wow! That worked out." 
Actually, I ended up with ideas for next year, so bold ideas that I'd love to implement once I have some time. It might take up a week or two just to think about that and make it happen. So I got the long-term suggestion and they helped me come up with a short-term version of it, that they're okay with, too. 
So it just worked out 'cause they respected my concerns about running it, or my limitations in all this. So it's just interesting how we were co-evolving methods. You were all learning to give feedback and thinking about learning a little bit differently, and Lynn and I were on the spot, thinking like, "Whoops! Why did I ask that question? Now, I'm in trouble. No, I'm not. That was a beautiful question. Boy, that was great. That really helped me."
ROB 5: So there was a lot of me growing at that point, too. That was one of my first courses, too. I forget what year it was but it was in the first couple of years. So I know I think that was the first time we talked that specific course outside the department here. So it was really a bold one. 
So, yeah, I'm glad to hear that that stuck with you, Mel, 'cause it stuck with me too, many times later, many iterations later. 
Can I change the subject? So speaking of Lynn and "What is I", I just randomly looked at the screen and I'm seeing here, "Did you just delete something? For some reason, something shifted and now I'm seeing, "Find Lynn's analysis of Rob versus Jon getting her humor." That sounds hilarious. That's funny. So is Lynn talking about getting her humor in a classroom setting or through these interviews that we're doing? 
MEL-R5: All of the above. It's part of the fun, faculty is doing this thing. One of the things that I wasn't expecting is... I was expecting all of the faculty now anyway to talk about stuff they learned in the past while doing this crazy stuff, but there's been a lot of learning happening in the present as we reflect on it, as well. 
And one thing came up, this is actually the last thing I wanted to point out and bring to your attention again, you were thinking out loud about the way we did feedback and how you had tapered off the formal feedback to every other resource...
ROB 5: Yes.
MEL-R5: Because you were incorporating that into your actual class discussions, and you said something that indicated that, "Oh, I just realized this now."
ROB 5: Yes. That was very interesting to me because I have tapered off the frequency of feedback. 
So in every class I do, I have at least one whole day feedback session, usually like around the middle of it. And I have a few feedback moments, at least, where I think, "Let's take 20 minutes at the end of class and do a Plus/Delta kind of thing and that's often all... And there's more of a like, as we're going, "Hey, what do you think of that reading?" But that's it, it in terms of feedback, that's all. 
And this has evolved over the years. And at this point, I really saw it as, it was not accidental that I did that, and if you recall, in "What is I", did we end every day with feedback? Do you remember that? I don't remember it for, "What Is I," or not? 
MEL-R5: I do...
ROB 5: Did I? Okay. We may have. For my foundation courses and for the Jon Stolk one, I definitely end every single day with feedback. Right so, routine, just count on it. Last five to 10 minutes of class is going to be feedback. That's like, "Set your clocks by it." 
And I stepped away from that. I did it intentionally, basically thinking, "I could use the time more effectively. I still wanna get the feedback, but I could sort of chunk the feedback differently. Do it as this different time scale." So I was imagining it that way. That was the dialogue going on. 
And talking to you, I was realizing, "Wait a second, part of the role of that early feedback was to have that discussion at least once each day about, 'What did we think of the readings, ? What worked and didn't work?' And you can call that feedback and put it at the end of class or you can call that 'Let's discuss the readings,' and put it throughout the class."
ROB 5: But that was an activity that I always thought was valuable, but the more that I found it valuable, the more it just entered into my course, I just think. So, I'd be doing it much more than five or 10 minutes at the end of class. 
And again, there's a little bit of relaxing of control, right? So, instead of stepping through all of my discussion prompts on the readings, I might start with, "Who liked the reading? Who hated it? Why?" And then that's a way of getting into their mind. And it's like, "Oh, interesting, you seemed to hate it because it does these things." Now those are some of my discussion prompts. But it's much more of an open-ended, student-driven angle on it and it's happening all the time.
ROB 5: And talking to you made me realize that these observations co-evolve. So this idea of I could run the whole class this way, co-evolved with the sense of, "Do I really need to ask that question every single day at the end?" Those absolutely were... 
So, it's so fascinating to me. It's like, "What do you know, I was responding to something." And what I was responding to, was me. It was me putting it elsewhere and doing other things differently. 
So again, it's not that I was doing less feedback, it was just that, the way I run feedback and what I was calling feedback became more of the constant activity in a class. So now, when I do feedback, it feels different from that, it's not tied to a specific reading necessarily, but it's more like, "How is the course going?"
ROB 5: So I do that kind of thing a little less frequently, just 'cause it's bigger picture and you wanna have time in between doing it. And that's also is a fun reason, it's like me really figuring out my own reasoning. There's so much of that. So that's the case of being meta aware. 
I'm talking about it for students, I think it applies to faculty, and myself as well. 
And we're done. I'm gonna talk about Lynn's humor next time. I wanna hear what she said about that, 'cause that's really a fun topic, too. Everything you're typing now, Mel, I would love to hear their thought of me, or us. I just think that's really valuable; to have faculty talk about other faculty and close that loop a little bit. I think that's really informative.
ROB 5: It may end up being more of an Olin-centered, loop-closing, if that's all right with you.
MEL-R5: Great, that'd be fantastic.
ROB 5: Okay.
