ROB 2: Nice to see you again. 
MEL-R2: Beth is going to be our transcriptionist today. 
Rob, I thought we could start out... Since I don’t have interviews from Berea yet, if you wanted to look back and see what the shorter version of your interview was, I thought of instead of going with the Berea stuff we could go with the short version of the first story. 
ROB 2: That sounds great, Mel.
MEL-R2: I just sent you a link in the chat. It is the link to the very very short version. Not really the short version. I was trying for 3 pages. It is slightly over 5. 
ROB 2: That’s okay. What is two pages among friends? 
MEL-R2: I will try to make it shorter to make it easier for people to read. So your introduction will go to a separate place. It is actually a 4 page transcript. 
ROB 2: Okay.
MEL-R2: If you want to take a minute or 2, however long you need to read it. 
ROB 2: I am happy to talk as I am reading.
ROB 2: I can’t find the link. Is it in the chat window in Skype? Now I see it. Much better. I am opening it now. I see it. Lovely text, Mel. Should I read, sort of go through a few paragraphs at a time and we will chat about it, is that the idea here? 
MEL-R2: That'd be good.
ROB 2: So we are starting with my personal information. I am skimming the personal information. That looks great. I am sure there is that much in the beginning stuff. My quick skim is fine. Maybe we should go to the 3 hash tags. We are picking up steam here. Let’s see what you have got. Good, okay. I am done with page 1, looks fine. 
It is always kind of sobering to read about your personal history in this way. You are doing a great job. I like what I am reading so far. I am on page 2 right now. We are really diving into the design narrative, which is good. 
"Surprisingly late." It is fine, Mel. 
The idea... as I read this, should we chat about what I am thinking as I read it? The second paragraph on page 2, the paragraph looks great.
It is making me think about the way I portrayed some of this in the interview and what was going through my head while we were talking two weeks ago. In particular, it is funny.
It is hard to say we came to design relatively late. It is hard to say that, on one hand. 
Engineering has a lot of design in it. From day one we were teaching design. 
We assigned projects, gave students autonomy. Not simple problems to solve and simply trying to come up with a "correct" answer, and note that I am putting correct in air quotes. Is there such a thing as one correct answer? 
At Olin we were not asking them to do that. We were making the problems open-ended and defining engineering as an open-ended process. Therefore when I read this as "we came to design surprisingly late..." it is oversimplified.
On the one hand, you could say "What are you talking about, Rob, we had design there at the beginning."
On the other hand, there is truth to what I said. We weren’t highlighting this as design. 
We were calling it engineering and we were talking about the concept of open-ended problems or projects without the concepts of design: the vocabulary, terminology or tool kits of design. This is what engineering is: how do you talk about, approach a problem that is not bounded, and how do you figure out how to deal with all this freedom, come up with something useful in all of these conditions?
In the early years we talked about engineering without using design terminology, also without a lot of structure around that discussion. 
What I mean is, each instructor kind of tackled this on their own. We used a lot of disciplinary language. "An open ended mechanical problem is best approached in this way." 3 hours later the student might go in a coding class in a computer programming context. "Here are some tools that work, here is the idea of flow charts," whatever it might be. You had a disciplinary approach to this challenge of open-endedness. 
It was only years later, when we had design faculty, that Olin made a push to teach design as design. "Time out. There is a concept, a discipline, called engineering design. There are tools we could all be using regardless of discipline. Let’s talk about those and apply them across the curriculum after we test them out." 
Some of Olin’s project courses preceded some of the design language and some of the design courses. At the same time, it was seen as something we could build as a tool kit that different instructors, like myself, could use anywhere across the curriculum. 
This was a long riff on paragraph 2 on page 2. It is interesting, an ambiguous concept of when did we start teaching design, and I wanted to make sure I paid it proper respect. Is that clear or useful to you in any way?
MEL-R2: Yes absolutely. This is exactly what I was hoping to do. I'm thinking we might keep doing this throughout the document, and take a little pause so Beth can rest her hands, and then go into, can you think of a specific story that you want to dive deeper into? Basically using this for part 2, Rob tells another story 
ROB 2: Excellent. What I just did is helpful? We could do more of that but also pursue a tangent. If it sparks a new story, by all means we will go in a new direction. I am happy to hear this is what you were looking for. That is interesting. If I am going to riff a little more, before I return to the document... 
I will point out I was one of the instructors furthest from design. Being a history prof, it wasn’t obvious that I was going to interface with design, and that wasn’t seen as a problem. We never said "We have this new concept of design, every single person must do it." Enough people wanted to use design teaching and design language. Olin was saying "great, it is going to be helpful. If anybody else wants to go down that road, join us, but that’s cool, we don’t want to be a one size fits all kind of institution." 
This is something that I loved seeing at Olin, is teamwork. A lot of people across disciplines talking to each other, working with each other. It was a little sad at first, I couldn’t participate the same way as every one else was. 
One example is that we have a second year course, UOCD, that is a team taught design course, a required course for all students in the sophomore year. Different instructors rotate through that course as teachers. Design [faculty] were sort of permanent instructors, but you needed anywhere from 3 to 6 faculty members teaching that course because it was a huge course. Other faculty were popping in and out over the years. These other faculty came mostly from engineering disciplines, a little bit from design. At one point even my friend Caitrin the enthnographer was called in, they were reaching into humanities and social science. 
I realized it wasn’t a good use of my time being in that course. I had no preparation for it. History is not a particularly useful discipline for UOCD, it is not bad but it doesn’t bring much to the table. I didn’t have really the background that was needed. 
This was one of those cases where I was observing it from the outside as an outsider. I would hear lots of student discussion about the course. I would hear a decent number of faculty discussions about the course. It was very high profile at Olin. Being a outsider looking in, I went through different stages of responding to it., like the seven stages of grief or something like that I am trying to think about it. 
Some of the stages in some order were curiosity, then a little bit of envy, I was not invited to the party and wondering about it. For a while it was a little bit about, the fox who can’t get the grapes and they were probably sour anyway. "I can’t do it but that’s okay, it is not great anyway." 
Coming around after that, I learned more about UOCD, and no longer responded as much from an emotional perspective. "What they are doing is widely applicable. I wish I could take that course, it would make me better at my own work," thinking about it now no longer as an individual but as an instructor at Olin. 
Given our students now have this experience in their tool kit, what can I do in my courses that draws upon it. Remind them of what they did in this design activity and build my course around that. Not necessarily to support the design course, but more to let the design course support me, how does that make my students better at what I am trying to accomplish?
It took me a little bit of evolution to kind of internalize what design was and figure out what was going on there. At first it was kind of comical, all this fun is going on, I can’t be part of it. And later I figured out, that’s not the point. I could be part of it if I wanted to. I have so much else to teach and it doesn’t make sense. I have so many great things I am teaching, I would rather focus on those. Because this course is out there, Olin is different now, our students are becoming more of these Renaissance People that I personally care about. 
The essence of collaborative design is saying as an engineer, you have got to look at the social implications of what you are doing, see your work as coming from a societal context and some day it will return to a societal context. Desires that people have, problems they are solving, needs, wants, fears, coming from culture, economics, all these personal angles are driving what engineering students do. You cannot [ignore] societal issues, you have got to embrace them. Take time at the beginning of the engineering process, understand the person who is going to use your creation and understand the group that is going to use your creation. Try to characterize them into smaller populations called personas. It is saying "a lot of people want different things, but I will break them into different groups, come up with representative identities that I can use to characterize this variety."
As I responded to this in my own teaching, what’s great is that it is sort of what a historian is doing in some ways, understanding a larger context that is causing individuals to act in certain ways. Context is not totally shaping or constraining what individuals do. There are still individual differences, still room for free will and so on. If you are ignoring the context, you are ignoring a lot of the picture. It has an impact. Design was making students think that way. 
Then you have the engineering process, saying "now you as an engineer are going to build something or create something and work with technology." That is what engineering is doing. 
The design folks kind of said "we would love to talk with you about engineering too, but we only have one course at this time." Go take technical courses and learn to become wonderful creators, but never forget this lesson you learned about needs coming from the people. 
It is interesting how the design folks saw themselves as the lead runner in sort of a baton race they are passing to the technical people, "now show our students how to make awesome things." Now that we have prepared them for this human angle of it. 
As I thought about this further, I saw my role as having the next leg of the baton race. Now we can understand the needs of people [design], and now we can understand the tools we have as engineers to craft these wonderful creations [engineering], whether it is code or human beings or chemical, whatever discipline, we are creating. 
Now Rob as a historian can come in and say, "look what happens afterwards. At some point you are not going to be there holding on to your blueprint or device, it will be in someone else's hands. Can we understand what happens then?" How did technology shape societies, cause new discussions and change that context? That was part one of the baton race, think about the needs and wants. What are the social implications, how does technology affect societies?
It was thrilling for me to see myself as part of this big chain. I always saw myself as connected to this chain, I believe in a Renaissance education, but this made it seem much like a sequenced set of learning opportunities, we were following a piece of a plan. That made it exciting.
I noticed some of the entrepreneurship faculty stepped in, "oh we’re sort of like Rob in that stage in the baton race." When your [an engineer’s] invention is created and you are now going to be an entrepreneur, how do you make sure you are realizing opportunities in the most effective way, how do you ensure that your goals are achieved? Entrepreneurs were able to plug themselves into the big mission as well. 
I have to look back and say that the design stream coming into the Olin curriculum, the very articulated role of the design stream, the more carefully... this is awkward [to say], the act of doing design in intentional ways, using terminology that is defined as design and not just folded in with anything... when we decided to start doing that, the curriculum became this team effort, we all knew what parts we were playing. 
Before design we were working together without realizing it, and design said "we are the first domino in this wonderful chain," and everybody else said "we are dominoes too, it is awesome, let’s talk about it." That is really when it started. 
I am giving a lot of emphasis to a single course, UOCD. This was really a set [of courses] with UOCD the most visible one. 
[[That is a phone ringing in the background and I apologize for that. That was actually a good stopping for me right there. Mel, was there any interesting, while we are leting our poor typist rest your hands a bit or catch up. Did you see anything a little confusing or incomplete? ]]
MEL-R2: I am noticing a couple of interesting things or patterns. You talked about just now, UOCD, which Lynn spent a lot of Tuesday talking about. 
The theme of you portraying yourself as the character on the edge of things, sort of outside design, coming into design from the outside, was something that came out very heavily from your first story also. 
It is interesting how you continued to create that, intertwine it into another thread from the first story, the emerging from... not design being practiced in the curriculum [being the emergent thing] so much as the realization and the consciousness and the intention of going, "yeah that’s what we are doing, we will put words to it now," so now you are actually bringing those two threads together, which is super cool. 
And the third one, which we haven’t talked about today yet. Which might make a good story context. It is a bit later in your first story, we can keep going through that. That is when you started getting specific about--in the classroom going "Oh my gosh it is a thing."
ROB 2: Mel, wonderful, wonderful, sort of dissection of that. Any time you want to come to Olin and help me teach, you are hired. That was beautiful, Mel. Hearing you talk right now was helpful. I love the themes and threads weaving in and out. I think you are being kind to me. I think you are make could [missed word] appear now. 
One of me as a outsider, the second was sort of engineering, design as something that existed already but became better articulated, as opposed to something that did not exist and suddenly existed. Part of what we were doing is helping to define it as opposed to creating it in the first place. That is a great point, Mel. I would now jump again to a story. 
In the very early days of Olin, Partner year, we were sitting around a table brainstorming, we used the term design occasionally, what we were really using is the idea of project. I think I talked about this in our first session. 
We were very intentional about discussing different ways you could teach technical subjects. Teaching them with projects was not absolutely required. We knew that. 
We talked a bit about a lot of faculty members in the room and the different engineering experiences they had and they would often mention undergrad experiences were pretty much devoid of major projects, maybe lab experiences but nothing where they were really given the chance to fail and be frustrated and correct what they were doing. 
Instead of they were given lots of problem sets, content, lots of examples to show they mastered the content. 
They mentioned the next step was skill development, which you could see as being the first step towards projects and design and so on. They said "after we dealt with a lot of content in our technical courses we switched to gettIng tools, and opportunities to apply those tools. Take equations and take a piece of software and apply it in different ways so we became masters of the tools." 
They were saying something was lacking, that they usually discovered in grad school. "Here is your project and you run with it. You are going to decide how to work on it, create the parameters of what you are trying to accomplish, define what it means to fail." Of course you don’t entirely define that in graduate school, the school will tell you very happily if you are failing or not. You have a lot of these parameters. 
They were doing a lot of designing in grad school, but they were saying it more in the terms of "you are given autonomy to work on your projects." 
Everyone in the room agreed that at Olin we would do [projects with student autonomy] even if it meant we did less of the former activity, less of strict content and skill development. We realized you can’t do everything, something has to go, you don’t have 37 hours each day, you only have 31. I am kidding, Mel, that was a joke. We were willing to pay some of that price, a little less content, a little more project. In some cases, more than a little. 
I am making it sound more smooth than it was. Some faculty stood up, saying "let’s not sacrifice too much content." That started a number of heated discussions. "Who needs content, let’s minimize the content," a group would say "no no no you can’t do that." I am saying it like it was an unified voice. That’s not the case. But at the end of the partner year, there was a lot of agreement that there were going to be a place that implemented a number of projects. 
Earlier you mentioned Rob was the outsider [while] design is getting articulated. I did not feel like the historian outsider during the early years because projects were an idea that related. 
I could imagine history being taught as content and skills; that is indeed the way it is taught. You get a lot of lectures, homework assignments, papers or so on. You are processing content and responding to it. 
I could imagine history as a project-based activity. Students are acting like grad researchers who have a little bit of content at the particular time and decide what additional content they need and question that content and challenge it and do something, use it toward the goal they help articulate. 
There was no sense in the room of being an outsider, this [project approach] spans everything, we [faculty] all should be a part of this. 
I believe I said last time I talked about competency development. MEL-R2: Yes you did.
ROB 2: The number [of Competencies] was 9. Again, this is something that should span all the disciplines. 
The competencies discussion was where we started to define a little bit in terms of faculty members taking on different educational challenges. What I mean by this is, when I said we should all do projects, there was no opt-out choice. You could not say "oh, I’m the faculty member who doesn’t do projects." We were kind of saying "this is what Olin is going to to do, you have got to all do that. If you have got a real problem let’s talk about it and resolve it." 
When we said we are going to use competencies, you could not opt out. However, the big part of the competencies discussion was which competencies to do. If we all agree on these 9, which ones will each of us deliver, and we are each welcome to opt out of some [competencies] and choose your battles. 
I can’t do all nine in every class, it will be a terrible mess. As a faculty we will all agree on the competencies, we are agreeing on what a graduate should be, that is an identity issue. We should divide who should deliver which competencies. That is where we have strengths and weaknesses. 
Each individual, each course, has a strength and weakness. We could have looked into giving everybody [the requirement of putting all the competencies] in everything. We said we would allow [faculty] to pick and choose what to do. 
I as Rob was looking them over and seeing design and thinking... "that is one that seems really cool, and I think I know what it is, to be honest, it is not in my top 5 competencies, definitely avoid that one," and feel I have plenty of things to do. I could avoid that [competency] without feeling like a lazy slacker. 
I could also look around this room and see people who are going to hit a home run with that one. By getting into this competencies by saying... some of us are doing this thought process: "I am going to focus here, but I don’t need to focus there; it is on the list, and something will deal with it. I can deal with this with things I am best qualified for." 
I think it happened on the flip side, like with communication, I stood up and said "I can deal with it" and some of the other faculty said "oh great, Rob and a couple of people are doing it, excellent, I don’t have to deal with it, it’s in good hands." 
Down the road we looked around and said "no one should be dodging these things."
In the early years we had a sense that we had to divide and conquer. It was a phrase we used a lot. We saw this need to open the doors to students after the partner year was over, we saw this big deadline, this big frightening prospect of teaching and having something good to say. 
This idea of me being an outsider didn’t always necessarily have to be that way, but it appeared that way during the partner year when we were so overwhelmed that we started leaving other parts of the curriculum to others. 
Once we started teaching courses, that accelerated. I had to improve the courses I was already teaching, and design new courses. It was less possible to take a step back and say "what is this design idea again. Let me think once more how I might plug into it." That wasn’t in the cards for years. 
When you are running a curriculum and making revisions, you have things in your face right away that you have to address. We had that luxury at the start of the partner year when we had a whole year to make curriculum design choices. We did not have that luxury once we opened our doors. 
We got some of that luxury back, after we had run the whole curriculum, we had a 4 year [curriculum] in place and at least two years running each course. We kind of saw all the parts there. Then we were able to say, "okay, there are not going to be any unforseen fires at this point. It is working, it is good, not just working, it is good, perhaps very good, perhaps we can take a look at it and make it excellent," this came later when people were able to catch their breath slightly. 
At Olin, you never catch your breath. There is always something crazy going on; you are running like a mad person. It was worse when you were designing year by year. We barely got through that. "Next year we are adding a junior year of courses." That was absolutely insane. 
What is up here [to see when we catch our breath], what are the some of the opportunities... and one of those things that jumped out was design. People looked around and said "here is something not just good, here is the design stream of courses. How can the rest of us learn from that and plug into it some way?"
This all started when you mentioned me as an outsider. I think that is a great comment. It was really a narrative. It receded, it was a tide moving in and out over the years, based on how busy other things were. I will bring that to a close at this point. That is the next story time episode brought to a close.
(Beth takes a typing break, Mel and Rob switch to informal discussion; notes that follow are Mel’s)
Rob’s practice during this interviews is very much like Donald Schoen’s reflection-in-action (I sent Rob references, he was fascinated)
Rob is in super-generative mode right now; his "tangents" aren’t really tangents, they are awesome improvisations going deeper on things.
Rob notes that he does not often get to be in "generative" mode -- Rob and Mel suddenly remember that Mel was a student in Rob’s classes long ago! -- Rob says that when he is a teacher in the classroom, his own role is to get students to be generative, rather than having his job be providing all the ideas and insights as to what he thinks. Rob says that maybe that’s why this is so much fun, becuase he gets to play that role, where it’s important what he thinks now; he also notes he’s playing both roles at the same time because he is stepping back to reflect/connect his ideas just like he would if he were commenting on a student’s thoughts in class.
Mel asks Rob if he’s always taught this way, and the transcription starts again.
ROB 2: I always taught this way. I teach the way I would like to be taught. One time, I don’t think I told you this story. If I did, stop me. 
One time I had a visitor, he was an anthropology professor. At the end he came up to me and said, "Rob that was a great class. Let me ask you a question; were you an undergrad in history or something different?" 
Right away I thought it was fascinating. "Actually I was undergrad in science and masters in engineering and only in my PhD studies was I in history. I have got to ask you why did you ask me that?" 
"You teach this course like a graduate course. A lot of historians and anthropology students went through their whole educational experience in one discipline. In the back of your mind you have this background in mind, how undergrad teaching should be. A lot of that is rote teaching and content based learning and so on. Rob, you don’t do that."
The guy was wondering if I was lacking this kind of sense of tradition, because I sort of skipped that in my own [studies] and jumped right into the grad school model and therefore applied that when I was teaching undergrad. To him I said something like, "first of all, you got me, I was only a PhD in history. Not many, not a big formative part of my education. So, yes that’s true, I never had that model." 
To him, that was the answer, he was praising me, he thought it was a good model to be teaching undergraduates. I was thinking, "I don’t want that to be the whole reason." Looking back that is a part of it. 
When I think history, I think of these wonderful graduate experiences I had, and how open-ended our discussions were. A bunch of people in the room working together to a big... a bigger common understanding. I think that is part of the truth, Mel. 
Part of it, though... I love it [teaching in an open-ended manner], and we have some faculty members, even at Olin, who don’t love that. They prefer more of a structured learning experience with this idea of examinations. They personally love sitting down and listening to a lecture. They sit there and absorb a beautifully packaged lecture with a beginning, middle and end and they can do something with that in the days that follow. 
To them, having a student raise their hand and move it in a new direction is kind of weird. This is not beautifully crafted any longer. "What are you doing to my learning experience?" They kind of see that things are a little different now. You feel some tensions arising sometimes. It is like a nature and nurture argument. We teach the way we were taught and brought up... and also the way we each enjoy. 
MEL-R2: That is fascinating. I have only taught one course here and it was a graduate course. Oh my gosh, Olin has messed with my brain for life. I was teaching and my students were looking at me, [saying] "what are you, you gave us the problems without giving us all the things we need to solve the problem." [I said,] "Yeah. You are grad students." ROB 2: That’s right.
MEL-R2: [I said,] "Isn’t it wonderful?" "No, we want step by step instructions." I think that expectation came from, I have heard from other people, it might have been you, definitely from other professors also, that Olin is grad school for undergrads. ROB 2: Yes.
MEL-R2: That is the thing that some people say. I don’t know how it came up, and is it part of the thing in the back of your mind when you are designing things? "Oh, grad school"?
ROB 2: I was talking about that in our earlier discussion, now that you are mentioning it. I was talking about that in terms of almost grad school like experience. A lot of us in our early partner year discussions, "Let’s make this leap and make it [a] grad school experience for undergrads." That was a nice phrase. 
Some of the people who are worried about this approach, it gave them some of good talking points. "Hold it. How could you talk about the grad school experience when you are an undergrad?" Good question, I think you can do that.
"Can you give students all this autonomy, first year students walking in the door?" Good point. "We want to have some basis upon which all this freedom is built. ‘Hey you guys, you have never heard of this subject before.’ That’s crazy talk."
We have made that mistake. We have done exactly that. "Here is an autonomous project; go fail." The students failed early and didn’t learn that much. It is good to fail, and you should know what you are doing, and understand what is means to fail and succeed, and then be allowed to fail. We had a lot of discussions [on] what does it mean to do grad school for undergrad. 
Not every faculty member bought into it. The faculty member who says "I need to give you these crafted high-content experiences"... Olin did not take the decision to say "good luck finding a new job, that’s not what we do here." Instead they said "okay we can make that work, too. We can plug it maybe in the curriculum, paired with the project, some way we can squeeze value out of that."
Some outsiders say "why didn’t you fire those people, why is that still allowed in the curriculum?" There is a lot of answers to that question; we have always taken the approach "let’s make use of these tools." 
Some of it is interesting. I personally feel that we have a little more of [the high-content approach] than we need. We could get rid of some of that content but I do not think we should get rid of all of it. I think we have found a way to make it work for us and make projects more useful. 
Let me make a comment. I am not sure if we are back in the working mode or having an unusually long discussion. 
MEL-R2: During that last long stream, Beth actually jumped back into action, that is a good time to shift back more formally.
ROB 2: Beth is a true hero, way to go. Let’s get into the back of the thick of things. What would you like me to do, Mel, now? Could you pick up anything I said before, let me know how you would like to move forward at this point.
MEL-R2: I can see a couple of options. I will give you 3 and you can pick which way you want to go. 
One is tying into what you were saying in our quote, unquote, "break," which I think is an incredibly interesting part that is about the formation of your teaching identity that bubbled up in the context of you teaching like grad school because that was your experience in the history PhD. We can go into the development of Rob’s teaching identity a little more. Teaching identity, number one. 
Number two would be to journey back to that first short story transcript from two weeks ago, to look at what you said about [the] Stuff of History [course] and go back on Stuff of History. 
And then the third one, you started talking about other faculty members who seemed to have a harder time with this "design, open-ended, what are the heck are we doing" thing. We could talk about them a bit more.
ROB 2: These are all tempting options. MEL-R2: You could try to do all 3 at once!
ROB 2: Especially the third one we can fold into the first two very easily. Let’s think of one of the first two. One was the evolution of my own style and the second was Stuff of History. Could you say a little bit, what is it about Stuff of History. I can always happy to talk about that. I can see there is something there you would like me to go into more. Is there anything in particular about that narrative you would like to hear more about? 
MEL-R2: Somewhere around page 4 in the short version of your story where you described Stuff of History specifically as "this is when it became real to me. Before I was sort of ‘design is cool’ but not directly doing it, but Stuff of History was when I actually had to teach it. This is the moment when I personally entered into teaching the design stream in some way."
ROB 2: I can merge topics one and two. It will be awesome. That was very helpful Mel. 
Stuff of History was a real turning point. Maybe we could talk about what I talked about before Stuff of History. That’s how I think of merging them. 
I never saw myself as a true outsider as certain of my colleagues feel at other engineering schools. In the History of Technology field we have these conferences, and I get to meet other historians, and many of them teach at engineering schools, and often the narrative is "I am just the historian in the room of engineers, and they need common core curriculum that the faculty and students don’t value, I am a marginal person, poor me." 
There is a lot of that narrative in the History of Technology field. They are not mainstream. They say "I have a friend of mine that teaches regular history, not history of technology, they are treated with respect, [they are] important, [they] go on and help people with careers in their own major, but not me, I just teach engineers." 
I had this background. I was kind of ready for it when I came to Olin, never happened.
Already at Olin during the partner year I realized what I was doing was valued by the students and the instructors, "we want history, humanities, social sciences as part of this Renaissance engineer." Excellent. I do not feel like some martyr, not at all unhappy. Let me do the things I needed to do. 
This gets into what we talked about earlier about competencies. We had so many, that everyone valued, that I felt very important. I had this very important job that I knew I could do a really fine job of integrating into an engineer’s toolkit, mind set, and I knew I could do this in ways other faculty couldn’t. Me coming from an engineering background and trying to understand being an engineer who communicates, context. Partly because of my discipline...
(phone rings) --I can’t believe the phone is going off. I will be back in one second. Sorry about that, she will call me again in a few minutes. 
So what I was saying was the competencies helped to confirm that I had this important role to play at Olin. Everyone bought in, I felt I could do a good job, I studied the history of technology, I study engineers and engineering, I could really show you why context matters, why communication matters, why ethics matters and so on by using my discipline. So that was my sort of my marching order, what I do matters. 
Furthermore: the way I did it was interesting. I was talking to Mel earlier about how I was brought into the history field as a grad student. I was a student of science and then engineering. I got to history relatively late. I loved the graduate student model of inquiry, sitting around discussing a reading, everyone contributing to a discussion. I wanted to do this, and this kind of open-ended use of classroom time factors into the projects we were saying were so important at Olin. 
I am going to give these students a project to work on, a history research challenge. One way to prepare them is to model classroom time in the way the students are taking a big role in running the classroom. It will not be a structured class room where I have all the authority and then throw them in a project; that is not really fair. Instead, let’s start at the beginning, let’s go with an instructor-guided discussion rather than instructor-controlled discussion. Let me sit with them at the at the table as one of the participants.
(Phone rings again.) The phone is now off the hook. 
The style of teaching teaching was developing, too. In the early days I was running my own course and trying to have open-ended discussions and it was really fun. That was me as a solitary teacher. Teaching my own course by myself in my one discipline, but trying to make it open-ended plugged into the rest of the curriculum. 
I think the courses were always rewarding, popular among students, never a problem with students not enjoying the courses. There was no problem in the courses I taught before Stuff of History in terms of a flaw or weakness. They were great courses for what they were trying to accomplish. Delivering the competencies I wanted to deliver. 
When I started teaching Stuff of History, it was a door opener. As important as these learning objectives as competencies are, as great as it is [to say] "I want to teach you communication," that can somehow become constrained, I am teaching communication and not something else. I was guilty of that in my standalone courses. They gave me an excuse to not see myself in bigger terms. 
Also, it was scary to teach something not in my discipline. Therefore I am only going to teach history and do a wonderful job of it. 
Stuff of History, we mentioned last time, we taught the course over and over again and the first two times were very tense stiff steps in the direction the course took. 
The first time we taught Stuff of History we were seeing it connected to a project course. It was represented that way on the chart as having 3 boxes. The meeting times were divided in bins. From 9 to 10:30, we’re going to have a history discussion, then a materials science course, then a project on Friday. 3 components even though it was integrated, combination of different things. 
As we started teaching it, it was the project where we were starting to go give ourselves permission to use time inefficiently. "The discussion we are going to have addresses neither of the competencies on the syllabus, but we think it is fun; we are going to give it a try." 
"This project is moving in a new direction, since there are two of us here let’s just give it a shot." 
It gave us the excuse to try new things in a weird way. It took that experimental project section of the course to give us this permission. "We are just trying this thing the first time. Let’s give it a shot and see what happens." That was the most successful part of the course. We were having these unconstrained activities and discussions, things that were not tied specifically to one competency. And that’s where we were really doing something valuable for the students.
I am looking at what I wrote last time. Here is a quote: "I couldn’t say, ‘hey I am the humanities guy, don’t bother me with that stuff.’" On the one hand I am going to do things with you in the humanities space that are exciting and fun. We are learning about how to make your communication more effective, context. On the other hand, "hey I am the humanities guy, I wouldn’t do as good a job, it wouldn’t be efficient, it would take me away from other stuff." 
Being in the Stuff of History, we both stopped saying that. Yes, I am the humanities guy, [but] that is not relevant now, we are working, being in interdisciplinary space. We are asking you as students to stretch yourself in the space. I am no longer "humanities guy," I am a member of a big team trying to deal with really exciting interdisciplinary problems. 
Folding it back into design now. Design was always something very easy to sort of push away from myself. "You are doing a little design in my courses, but I am not going to focus on that." 
Instead, in integrated courses, you are designing your projects in Stuff of History. There is technical stuff, you are doing it more explicitly, but you are also designing. 
That made me realize how they are doing it in [my] standalone [history class]. You are creating a thesis driving your entire project. What better way to do a thesis than to figure out who is going to read the paper, what are you saying, and respond it in their own way based on what you are bringing to the paper, and factor that in when you are writing this. 
Run with this example a little more. In most of my courses you have to write a paper, whether it is standalone [history] or integrated [with another discipline]. I personally think that engineers are often able to dodge the writing aspects of these projects. I think it is challenging for engineers. I want them to dive in and help them accomplish their own goals [instead of thinking about their readers]. I do that all the time. 
I never used to talk about this as design process. Part of it is that paper-writing is able to mask aspects of design process. Who’s my user, what do they need, what do they bring to the table.
When you are writing the paper, who’s the user, it is the instructor? Without talking about that in class, it is assumed the students in standalone history courses are writing a paper that I will read, and the students think "if I write this for Rob, he is a historian, he knows this, I don’t have to say it, I will assume he knows that and talk about other things." 
The problem is, I will get a paper handed to me that has very little background or context. The student is not dismissing that as unimportant’ [rather,] they think I know it already. 
They are running the design process in the background and think they can design in a way [that says], "Rob is a PhD in history, You wrote the book on Paul Revere -- literally -- so I can leave that out. I can leave that out." It is a very funny discussion. Why write a paper at all then? Everything else I know. You can just write one paragraph about maybe your opinion on this. 
It is by articulating the design process and talking about what the user expects, it is extraordinarily valuable in helping the student highlight what is needed in the paper. The student might say, "yes, I am writing for Rob, yes, he knows these facts, he has encountered these facts before. However, he still needs to read these facts to set up the analysis I put into part two."
(Beth loses her connection for transcribing; this next section is Mel frantically filling in by typing very quickly in realtime when she realized that had happened. A little dialogue was lost.)
We were sort of forcing students to wrestle with these questions. "Why do you think you need a thousand-page paper?" Telling students, "you’re not a drone, you’re not being handed a constrained problem you will then solve, you need to take ownership of it and figure out what the users are for it, what you want, [because] part of the design process is what you wish for something, and as a student in this classroom you need to take some of these challenges and ask that questions, not just sit there saying 'he’s asking us to do too much,' saying 'this is unclear.' [Instead, say,] 'let us talk about what I'm allowed to do without, and what I need to read,' and so forth." We were making the students do this, and they were not used to it, and I was not used to it.
In a standalone history paper, they were able to dodge those questions. I didn’t think we had to have that discussion. As a result, we missed opportunities. I might give them a poor grade because they did not correctly figure out one of my expectations for the paper. The ambiguity of "what is a history paper?" We should have had that discussion in history courses. The upshot... 
(Beth messages Rob and Mel to let them know she's lost the transcription link, and we interrupt the storytelling to get her set back up again. Once we resume:)
MEL-R2: I also, I told you it would be a 90 minute call. We are about 15 minutes away. I can go longer if you'd like to go longer but if you have a hard stop I wanted to respect that.
ROB 2: This time it would be nice to end at 11:30. Are we back in and everything is working out?
MEL-R2: Why don’t we wrap in 15 minutes. Wrap up whatever you were saying down, and let’s go through this and make sure there is nothing you wouldn’t want in the public. And plan for the next round.
ROB 2: Excellent. I am happy to stop telling that story whenever we want to. I want to make sure I left you with something coherent in the end. There was a lot of narrative there.
The real upshot is that, [as] I was saying last time, that I really encountered these elements of design in the Stuff of History for the first time, and design was one of the things we put on our list of competencies for Stuff of History. Things [that were] part of the course [that] we will not teach. "We will give you occasional feedback on design issues and the way you are dealing with design issues. We are not going to have any class time devoted to teaching you design concepts and we do not have high expectations since we are not teaching it." 
We are admitting this is sort of a second order outcome for this course but yet it still exists. We put it there on the list but not super high up. We put teamwork [on the list as well] and there was a third [competency] in this category [too], things we are addressing, but not really pounding home constantly. We put it there because we thought it was a fair thing to say because it was part of a course.
The way it ended up is [that] design thinking crept into most aspects of the course. Let’s use design principles to foster conversations about how you are taking class and how we are running the class. We took it on in a way that backfilled into my other class. I was doing Stuff of History [and it] opened the doorway to design concepts. 
The students were often the ones who brought them in. "We did a persona activity in UOCD maybe we could do it here." That is where I started experiencing this vocabulary. It made its way into my own courses, in small ways, but meaningful, helpful ways that were wonderful.
I think I will stop that story there.
