ROB 1: Hi Mel, hello there Mel, can you hear me? I can see Mel. 
MEL-R1: Hello.
ROB 1: Hello, Mel.
MEL-R1: Rob! Awesome. I think we’re working. 
ROB 1: Hey. I see you. I hear you.
MEL-R1: Rob, I’m going to send you a link and try to explain some stuff because this is the first interview. So there’s a little bit of setup to do.
ROB 1: Okay. 
MEL-R1: Are you getting video at all?
ROB 1: I can hear you perfectly. I can see, sometimes I see a video of you and then it’s been cutting out to your profile picture. So it’s been flipping back and forth.
MEL-R1: Let me kill the video.
ROB 1: Right now I see profile picture.
MEL-R1: Okay.
ROB 1: Right now I can actually see what you’re typing. 
MEL-R1: Awesome. So the link I just put into the chat is a direct link to the document so you don’t need to work off of Terry’s [the transcriber’s] video, and Terry you can turn off the screen sharing because all 3 of us can be in the document and I think that might be a little bit faster for Skype, so that’s the first little bit to explain. 
ROB 1: Sure. So what do I turn off?
MEL-R1: I don’t know if this is any better.
ROB 1: Okay. Wait. It’s loading.
MEL-R1: Yay. Okay.
ROB 1: Something is spinning.
MEL-R1: Something is spinning.
ROB 1: I have a blank screen. It’s loading something. Is this going to be the document?
MEL-R1: This is, yeah. So one of the things that I’m experimenting with in my interviews, which is probably the weird part of this, is usually when you have an interview and you have it transcribed afterwards and you have to call the interview subject to do checking and that’s kind of a pain for everybody.
But Terry has been doing transcription for my engineering education class at Purdue and uses a stenography keyboard and types super, super fast. So by putting the interview transcribed in real time what it lets us do is entire the [indistinguishable word] track stuff and the interview into one session so that right after we finish the telling of your story we can go right back and go okay is this actually what we said. Is there anything you want to take out, change or modify because another part of the study is, I think we may have discussed it a bit before, publicly sharing the stories and do the data analysis in public also. I should probably actually go through the IRB thing with you at this point already 
ROB 1: Okay. This is a wonderful system. I am not seeing the document yet. It looks like it’s struggling to load the document. I should point out that before when you were setting things up I was able to see the document for a little while. 
MEL-R1: I think that was through Skype. I’ll turn off the video here so there’s less bandwidth and can we try reloading that Google document page, ROB? 
ROB 1: Reload the Google doc?
MEL-R1: Yes, reload the Google Doc
ROB 1: What Google Doc ? Should I have one opened?
MEL-R1: Yes, the link in the chat.
ROB 1: Okay I’ll try to find that. 
MEL-R1: In the chat. I can e-mail it if it’s easier.
ROB 1: Wait I see the chat now.
MEL-R1: Okay and there’s a Google doc 
ROB 1: I have it. Okay.
MEL-R1: Looks like you’re in the document
ROB 1: Yes, I am. 
MEL-R1: You should be able to type in it if you want to. You don’t have to. Terry is going to do the transcribing.
ROB 1: I can tell that I could type in if I want to but I won’t mess up what you have there.
MEL-R1: Okay.
ROB 1: Wow, they’re good. Kudos to anonymous Wolverine. That is phenomenal typing into the document. 
MEL-R1: Okay. We’re just going to do this one time. I’m going to send you the magical IRB form thing and we’ll just talk through it. Then we’ll actually start the fun stuff. 
ROB 1: Okay. By the way, Mel should I be reading the document while I have the interview or looking at the Skype window? 
MEL-R1: Whatever you prefer. We can turn on the video. Terry is basically going to transcribe what we say. So whatever you feel makes the most sense for you. The if you like seeing the words magically pop up go for it. If you would rather not close your eyes and kick back on the desk. 
ROB 1: I’ll look at the words because I liked what you were saying about editing and error checking as we proceed. So I like the plan. Let’s follow the script here. 
MEL-R1: All right. So in that case let me get you that consent form and then we’ll actually get, have a little bit of fun. Come on Google. Send me a link. Come on. This is the challenge of doing long-distance interviews. 
ROB 1: I know but we’re pioneers, aren’t we, Mel.
MEL-R1: Yes. Okay. So Rob I think I sent you a link.
ROB 1: Yes.
MEL-R1: If you open it I think it’s a PDF.
ROB 1: Let me see. We’re loading.
MEL-R1: I think.
ROB 1: Yes.
MEL-R1: I think it’s PDF
ROB 1: It’s like 90 percent installed. I just can’t read it yet. Don’t celebrate yet. I’m trying to-- should I try again? It stalled, I think. 
MEL-R1: Ah, online documents, yay.
ROB 1: Come on, Google.
MEL-R1: Come on, Google.
ROB 1: Should I try again? Let me close and try again. It’s about 90% 
MEL-R1: This is also the first person to do the interview so we also get to hit all the first-time bugs that worked great when I was testing by myself. 
ROB 1: I’ve always wanted to be an Olin partner and now I get that feeling. 
MEL-R1: Thank you so much, rob, by the way. 
ROB 1: This is fun, Mel. I’m looking forward to it. So I see you and anonymous badger but not text in the PDF. I didn’t see those last time so I’m closer this time. Let me see. Maybe third is the charm. Let me try one last time. I wonder if it just takes a long time. Is it a large document?
MEL-R1: It shouldn’t be that bad. It says PDF
ROB 1: I’ve done it a third time. Again I see Mel and an anonymous person editing the document. I have a loading screen and there’s no text in the document. 
MEL-R1: Um okay. Let me just e-mail you the document as an attachment. This is the thing that should be arriving in the Olin mailbox any time so you’ll have a hard copy. Sorry about that. I should have done this one earlier. I always have back ups. 
ROB 1: I’m going to let it keep trying to load because I’m wondering if there’s just a delay. 
MEL-R1: Okay. The
ROB 1: Got your e-mail.
MEL-R1: Yes!
ROB 1: Okay the document is open. 
MEL-R1: This is the standard run of the mill consent form. I’ll have you go through it and ask questions. This is Mallory and [indistinguishable word] study and we’re looking at story telling about critical reversions for engineering education-- 3 Olin and 3 [indistinguishable word] faculty and the cool thing about those two schools is that both of them did this very design thinking is a big thing across the board your curriculum, critical design process except the [indistinguishable word] maybe 11-12 years ago now.
ROB 1: Mm-hmm 
MEL-R1: Or plus and [indistinguishable word] last year. So we’re going back and forth across 2 schools and 2 points in time. So we’ll figure out the interview scheduling later but this is one of 7 over the course of about a year-ish. Not much in the way of benefits and risks according to the IRB document.
ROB 1: [Laughter]
MEL-R1: Hopefully it’s fun and one of the things that off the side of the document but one of the things that I was hoping for both sides is since, I know you at Olin get to keep telling the story over and over and over again, having a public artifact and discussion about it, and one of the things I’ll be doing is take these interviews and shrinking them down to 1, 2, 3-page condensed stories. It might be a useful thing for you to have and pass around at workshops and such but we’ll see. 
ROB 1: Sure. I love the way you are setting this up. Everything you’re saying sounds wonderful. 
MEL-R1: Okay. So the confidentiality paragraph is probably the strangest one here. As I mentioned before we’re going to, I’m going to ask you to basically tell stories for all of these interviews about the process of doing that curriculum design, and usually when we do research you say, and everything is going to be private and confidential and anonymous, goes into a little black box and nobody will ever know it’s you.
ROB 1: [Laughter] 
MEL-R1: So we’re not doing that here. Instead, think of this as if you were like giving a conference talk or talking with some colleagues out in a restaurant. So you’re in the quasi public space
ROB 1: Mm-hmm 
MEL-R1: So I ask you to tell a story. Terry is live transcribing it. Then what we’ll do is we’ll go over and we’ll basically look through the transcripts together to make sure that you’re comfortable letting that go public and live. So it will say this is Rob’s first interview and he teaches at Olin college and here is what he said and here is the story and back and forth.
ROB 1: Okay. 
MEL-R1: So whatever we need to do to the transcript, cutting out names or whatever we need to do to be comfortable with it we’ll do it. Also we’ll have one week time out to sit and do last-minute strikes before it goes public.
ROB 1: Okay. 
MEL-R1: The end result is that we’ll have basically a transcript released under [indistinguishable word] license and if you want to do stuff with it, you can. I’m going to do research with it. We can maybe do other things with it.
ROB 1: Sounds clear. 
MEL-R1: Okay. And no compensation, everything is bound to it. You can stop whenever you want and nothing will happen. Then there’s a bunch of signature stuff that when it hits your mailbox you can sign it and turn it around back in an envelope
ROB 1: Okay.
MEL-R1: Does that make sense? Does that sound alright?
ROB 1: Everything related to confidentiality, IRB issues and so on sounds fantastic. 
I have one question about sort of about the way you’re setting up the study when you talk about the curricular design period. So you mentioned that Olin, as you know, went through this 11-12 years ago, whatever the time the number of years is but you could also say that Olin is continually revising our curriculum. 
So are we emphasizing just that first period? Is that-- just for clarity in my own mind. We’re going to look back to the beginning of Olin and focus on that? 
MEL-R1: I would like you to think back to the beginning of Olin but yeah, like you said, Olin is absolutely totally in constant flux. So if later stories come up, by all means feel free to mention them. I want you to be able to reach all the way back in that memory as well, and not just talk about oh, last year we did this.
ROB 1: Yes. Okay. 
MEL-R1: So reference the other two people from Olin that will be doing the interviews. Lynn and Jon because all of this is public anyway. So this first interview then, any questions about the consent form or research before I actually go to story time?
ROB 1: Thank you. I think I’m all set. 
My last question is a procedural one. So on my end I should be looking at the Google Doc to see what’s being transcribed. Are you still using the chat portion? This helps me know which way to face. Face the camera or the other monitor? 
MEL-R1: : The other monitor because I’m not getting camera from you right now because I think of Skype’s restrictions, user chat. So you can look at the document and story will magically come up as you talk. 
ROB 1: [Laughter] okay that sounds great. So somehow I left the document but I’m back into the document now. 
MEL-R1: Okay, cool. So this first one I’m just going to ask you to tell some stories about your background and what will happen with this story is that everyone is going to go through, all [indistinguishable word] professors are going to go through storytelling and for the rest of the interviews what we’ll respond to is not so much questions I’m asking but I’ll bring you like a 2-3 page version of someone else’s curriculum [indistinguishable word] story and ask you to take a few minutes to look that over and respond to whatever story of your own teaching past that reminds of you.
ROB 1: Okay. 
MEL-R1: This one is a little bit different from the rest. Okay. So story time. Let’s start with some introductions. If you could, I know I know you and I have met but if you tell the story of conferences public how would you want to introduce yourself to probably an audience of other faculty members. 
ROB 1: Okay. So gotcha. I guess I would start by saying I am currently a professor of the history of science and technology. What’s interesting about my background is that I come from a technical educational background. I have a bachelor’s degree in a science discipline and a master’s degree in engineering before I entered my Ph.D. program in history which is basically a humanities or social science discipline. 
I start by putting that on the table and mentioning by training I have sampled science, engineering and that’s called the social sciences in the way that I’ve been taught and educated myself. So that’s one aspect of my background. 
I would also like to talk about what I do at Olin college. I’m sort of weird compared to other educators in the sense that I have both an educational and a historical research side. 
So we could say, you could picture me working on, in my intellectual vitality space I’m working on both educational studies and historical studies. Then in terms of what I do this is a second axis you could imagine is I look at both research and implementation or practice, sort of an implied aspect. 
So I’m basically trying to describe in words what I’ve drawn several times as a 2 x 2 grid where you can say imagine Rob as having a history side and education side, having a research side and an application or practice side. That gives you 4 boxes: history of research, history of application, educational research, educational application. So that’s a second cut of what I do. 
If I was again doing this at a conference I would say those are very interesting abstract boxes. More specifically to fill in the boxes on the history side I’m very interested in early American history. I’ve studied Paul Revere before looking at him as an artisan as well as a patriot. 
Then on the history application side I like to bring my information to the public. I love presenting in front of public audiences such as libraries, public groups, sort of historical societies. I have worked as well with the Paul Revere house and the U.S. constitution museum designing exhibits of the history of technology to the people in an applied setting. 
On the education side I have worked with Jonathan Stolk who is a member of the research project you’re doing, Mel. Jon and I have looked at many issues through NSF funded research projects: We’ve looked at interdisciplinary education, the implications of project based learning and intrinsic motivation of students.
As I said at the beginning I have the research side where we have we have studied, gathered data, published some results but also done a lot of outreach, the application side with the workshops I’ve worked on where we have tried to go to different schools in America and places like Chile or Brazil and said what are you working on, what are your challenges and how can we help you and how can we refine our understanding of these educational challenges. 
Let’s see, in terms of my background so that’s sort of the high level view of what I’ve done. I have not talked much about the education but have tried to focus on the things that matter to me and implemented since becoming a professor. 
Could I take a time out? Have I missed a piece of the be background you’re interested in or is this what you’re looking for? 
MEL-R1: This is perfect. This is probably going to become like read Rob’s introduction section.
ROB 1: Okay, nice.
MEL-R1: So, I’ll give you the-- there are only 2 questions remaining that I have for the interview and I’ll give them both at the same time so you can decide how you would like to proceed. So the first one is if you could tell a story of imagine looking at the curriculum revision-- and I’d like to ask you to tell the story of how you came to be involved with that and the second one is a zoom out of that which is if you were to think of your teaching career as a book, what would the chapter titles be and where would this curriculum revision design thinking for your thing fit inside that book.
ROB 1: Very interesting. The first one was looking at curriculum design, but as you mentioned for the first question was it design thinking in particular?
MEL-R1: Yes. 
ROB 1: Okay so I’m trying to think. I guess I’m starting with the first one just because I have some questions of clarity to ask you. When I think of Olin’s curricular design, do you mean like engineering design? Is that what we’re talking about?
MEL-R1: Mm-hmm 
ROB 1: Okay because that’s a part of what Olin has worked on. Think back to Olin’s curricular design. It’s funny. We’ll have a challenge because the word design is used in several ways. Then I’ll try my best to keep them straight. 
Going back when I think of Olin’s curricular design process, in the early years there were a lot of stops and starts. It was very interesting being at Olin in the beginning at the exciting educational stunt. We mentioned the blank slate and building the airplane as flying in the air and metaphors used to describe how we were doing something exciting and dynamic to roll out the curriculum and break the mold while doing a good job for our students, helping them get a good education and not be hurt because they were guinea pigs. 
What’s interesting to me is that engineering as design came into the story surprisingly late, I would say. I would say it did not come in that much during Olin’s partner year but came in later. 
Mel would it be helpful to back up and talk about the partner year? Is that already covered in your story? 
MEL-R1: If you could give a few sentences of description but I’m going to be contextualizing the interviews by saying "When Rob says partner year -- [you can] see [this] document [to find out more about what that term means]." 
ROB 1: Beautiful so if I miss that you’ll fill it in later. Since we’re at this point in a few sentences-- you know I’ll go back and forth between the two questions. I’m thinking my own narrative is relative to the discussion of engineering as design. 
The... when I say partner year I’m thinking I was hired to work in Olin in 2001. When I came to Olin we had one year to design curriculum before opening the doors to the first class of students. We had 30 student partners helping to design the curriculum.
After the first year the students would then switch roles and become students to be educated... to continue helping us design as we went but we would now have a college up and running and now we would be teaching them while continuing to refine the curriculum. 
So we had a one year period of pure planning and design followed by 4 years working with those same first group of students, teaching them while continuing to design and refine our curriculum. 
After that first group of students graduated we had continuing years of some combination of teaching and revising what we’re teaching and again building that airplane as we fly it. 
So when I mentioned the partner year earlier I was talking about the first year when we really just had designed the curriculum on our agenda. We didn’t have to spend time teaching. We could devote 100% of resources to planning, research, to creation knowing that the following September we would open our doors to the students. 
You would think that we would be talking a lot in the first year as engineering as design and issues like that but design didn’t really enter into the discussion explicitly at that early point. We were focusing on questions of engineering disciplines or interdisciplinary approach.
We were talking quite a bit about project-based learning. There was an endless discussion among a lot of people regarding should we have projects as a way to deliver content, should we have projects as the focus itself and all other objectives be secondary to the importance of delivering projects. Do we have large projects or small projects or one project or multiple projects. So that came across a lot. 
We were talking a lot about what I saw at the time even as distracting issues such as accreditation, questions of how much we were concerned about the way we were viewed by the outside world versus how much should we articulate what we care about and what we stand for. 
Engineering design entered at most in the periphery of these discussions I would say looking back. We would talk about design as a piece of what engineers do but really it didn’t come up very much until a few years into delivering our curriculum. 
I would have to think hard to figure out when I would say it came into explicit discussion. I can’t point to a specific point. 
Certainly the hiring of design faculty was a turning point, when we started saying here is a faculty member who may be seen as a mechanical engineer but he is really a designer, right. It’s design first and a discipline second. They self identify as a designer. 
When that started happening and when people just got the sense of the word design being extremely relevant, you know, not just as a piece of engineering but as an identifier of the identity of engineering, that was a big change. 
It was a big change in how we designed our curriculum and it was a big change in the impact of our curriculum, in the goals of our curriculum. So you started this whole discussion with this question of what’s the narrative of engineering design, you know, at Olin. 
It’s fascinating to me to think that in the early years design came in as one of many parts of engineering.
We might talk about engineers as designers and then move on quickly to say engineers are also modelers. Engineers are problem solvers. Engineers are masters of certain realms of content. Engineers apply scientific principles to the real world. These were all weighted equally as possible angles upon engineering.
In the later years of Olin the idea of engineering as design grew, in my opinion, as something that really eclipsed many of the other questions. We said, you know something, design is a rich concept, it’s so broad you could fit so much under the umbrella of design that it’s actually okay to describe engineering as design.
Within that you were then allowed to do all the things I mentioned before. You could say part of the design process is modeling. Part of the design process is analysis. We’re not saying the other parts of engineering don’t exist or are not important, but design becomes a framework that encapsulates some of the others. 
Therefore when we look at our curriculum you could break it down into different pieces of design and say designers need human skills. They need to be able to interview people, to communicate their findings. Let’s do that in our curriculum. 
Designers need to be connected to content and to scientific principles. So they were able to bring those principles into the design process. So let’s make sure our students are able to do that. Designers are able to model. You have to come up with a design and then come up with some way of modeling what you’re trying to accomplish and modeling what you’re starting to accomplish if you want to adjust your direction. So let’s build modeling into the curriculum. 
So even if everyone at Olin doesn’t always use the word design in all of these context, people at Olin might just focus on modeling or science. Olin as a school has increasingly accepted the role of design as an organizing framework and as a way of looking at our curriculum. 
I have one last it thing to say about design before I pick up a step maybe. 
You could look at different aspects of our curriculum and look at their coherence and impact. I would think that the design stream is one of the more coherent, one of the most impactful pieces of Olin’s curriculum compared to something like my part in the curriculum is the arts, humanities, social science stream. It has some co-heirs and certainly an impact but there’s something about the design stream that has received more weight and more, I hate to use the word but more power at Olin than many of the other aspects. 
I think it’s in part because it’s so clearly connect to so much of what what we do that students and faculty are on the same page for that part of our curriculum. 
So as we all started talking about the design process and the tools of design, I think it made us better designers and curriculum builders. So that’s one thing point is all of us became educated in the principle of design and therefore better equipped to design a curriculum. 
Secondly it became better connected to what we do as engineering educators. 
So we all kind of accepted our role as, you know, in part, designers, teaching some aspects of design even as we’re teaching, arts, humanity, social science, science, math or engineering. 
So there’s a first crack at design from someone who is not identified as a design instructor.
Again, Mel could I take a step back and ask you if there’s anything to clear up about what I just said or if you could reorient me into something more useful at this point? 
MEL-R1: This is wonderful. You’re like perfect first-interview subject, Rob. I’m thinking about the timeline here and so you’re talking about this evolution of how Olin as a community thought about design.
ROB 1: Yes. 
MEL-R1: Certainly that’s something that I think as an institution we have formalized [the centrality of design in Olin’s curriculum] now, like in all the documents and the talks and everything. 
At what point-- is there a turning point or a document or you know 2007 curriculum revision that’s when we wrote it down we were doing it before. One of the official wording of it like the official stuff versus oh, we were having the modes in their conversations and if you could timeline that a little bit. 
ROB 1: That is a great question. In this case I will see if I can give you a little something but I am not going to be the best person to do that. 
In part this is embarrassing because I am an historian. So if anyone should be able to provide this history it should be the guy you’re talking to right now. You know, however, in part because I was immersed in a different challenge, I was working on the arts, humanities and social sciences stream, some of the technical things, some of the nuances of the technical design process slipped past me and I might have become more aware of them only when they bubbled up to such an obvious degree that they had already been codified but let me think your question now. 
So with that caveat I am thinking about the early uses of engineering design. If I remember right, this could be so wrong, by the way, Mel. This could become the most embarrassing part of my interview when I’m proven wrong with documents. 
MEL-R1: That’s okay what’s going to happen is there are 3 of you and you’ll tell different versions and we’ll go back an than look at the documents. That’s why there are 7 interviews.
ROB 1: Absolutely. You chose subjects wisely because Lynn and John were much closer and will clearly have things to say. 
I think my perspective is interesting as more of someone on the outside looking in to the engineering nuances when design started to bubble up into my consciousness I think is an interesting perspective because I remember some design faculty appearing at Olin and instantly seen as valuable and I loved working with them. 
At first they seemed like all the rest of us, teaching courses in their field. 
So I remember from an early point seeing courses that had the word design very prominently in the title. I could not name one of those courses offhand because the courses have changed and I may give a name that was converted 5 years after it was first taught. Design nature was a modern course we have and I’m not sure it was called that in the early years. There’s one example. 
Design courses appeared with a very clear emphasis on the role of design in the outcomes of the course. I think there were earlier courses that absolutely were teaching engineering design but it was not as clearly articulated. It might have been seen something at mechanical in nature. Then when you read the course direction you realize you’re being taught to design a system. 
Design was a competency really emphasized. So I would see courses that were more clearly emphasizing design concepts and design thinking than they have previously been emphasized. 
Then there came a turning point, that’s sort of where you were going. There was certainly a turning point where it was not just isolated courses but it was a principle that would exist throughout many courses. So it was something bigger than a single course and that had to be taught in different places, more coherently than the catch-as-catch-can model where you say I put design here and here and I hope the students touch it. 
By the way, a moment ago I used the word competency and it’s another angle to use in addressing the question. In the very early years, for example the partner year, we spent effort defining competency. 
I think we had 9 we defined where the intent was to say we’re going to teach a lot of disciplinary topics, a lot of little courses and we don’t want this to be incoherent so let’s identify 9 real learning objectives that multiple courses must touch upon, and if we don’t educate students in these 9 areas we have failed with educators. 
So it was a nice way to put our money where our mouth was. I’m pretty sure the number 9 is correct. Olin debated and we had a big list and cut it down to a tiny list and so the more competencies you have the more detailed they are but also the more crazy the whole curriculum looks because you’re trying to do say 20 different things and it’s easier to get lost in the details. On the other hand if we were doing 1-2 things they have to be so broad they lose meaning. So we ended up with 9 things we were trying to do. 
The one was communication, for example, that I cared about very deeply. One was context you’ll understand which fell on my shoulder as a historian and social scientist. 
Design was at different times one of those competencies. It ended up making the final cut so I think it is still a competency in the document. So design was wrestled with as something broader than or bigger than a specific course or major, something that could be achieved through many different courses. 
As with all of the competencies this became something of an unfunded mandate at Olin if I use congressional testimoniology. These were seen as useful vision statement document that gave us a direction but when push comes to shove, as an instructor I’m not going to give you a grade in a competency but a grade in my course. 
The course is representative of a discipline. So competencies became something seen as orthogonal to courses and discipline and in many cases orthogonal to grading. You may say I’ll give grades to the learning objectives and the objectives are often disciplinary in nature but at the same time I’m genuinely teaching the competencies however I will not assess them [missing word]. In most cases that’s what faculty members said. 
The design as a competency was useful, as all the competencies, as a benchmark to check our goals to make sure we were doing what we hoped we were doing but it was not explicit. 
Being a competency didn’t make something explicit in the faculty or students’ eyes. To this day the competencies exist, the list of them on the web page. So it’s not imaginary or bogus. It’s real.
Some faculty very heavily use the competencies. For example, in my class, the second class I teach with Jon it’s an integrated course called the stuff of history, we use the competencies to drive grading. 
When you take an assignment in the course you, you write a paper in the course I give you a grade in whatever competencies I’ve identified for that assignment. I may say Mel you did a great job and the communication is great and beautifully written but the contextual understanding grade is B+. While it’s solid there’s room for improvement. Your qualitative analysis grade is A-because that was very strong with just a few areas where you might get better and the design grade is a B- because that was the weakness of this assignment. I want you to identify these areas of design in the assignment and look at the places where you could improve. 
It’s interesting where I may mention one assignment has 4 competencies flagged in the example I just made up, and you receive 4 pieces of assessment and 4 avenues for improvement. So in a case like that with instructors who take the competencies seriously something like design would be something that matters if we put that into our course and we would be really working with it, you know, working with the students to build design, thinking in design principles. 
Many instructors did not take the competencies in such a serious tone and focused on other grading schemes. So that’s where a design instructor would be very helpful for saying this course really is about design and therefore I’m absolutely going to emphasize these design principles. So through some classes like that the students would learn about design and it would rise to a higher level of consciousness, of awareness in our curriculum. 
So how am I doing on the question right there, Mel? 
MEL-R1: Great. So one thing I notice is I think you have been wearing your historian hat a little bit. So the oral story that I was involved in from a little bit of a distance, could you talk a little bit more about Rob the character like the adventures of Rob? 
ROB 1: Yes. I love the adventures of Rob. Rob is a great character. We should go into that. I also love the history hat. I picture that hat as an Snazzy looking hat. 
Anyway, my adventures-- by the way the reason I got off of my adventures as we emerge more into the world of design and immerse ourselves into that world my adventures deviate from design because I was dealing with many other issues. 
My adventurers were fantastic in the early days of Olin. I was the chair of arts and humanities and social sciences committee. It was funny. I was hired out of graduate school. I had graduated and had a few months to do lecturing at intermittent and research for a tech book to work on research and hired at Olin. 
I was told "welcome and we’re glad to have you here. You’re in charge of all arts, humanities and social science teaching at Olin. Best of luck with that. Let us know how that turns out." I once said at a faculty meeting "you have just given me 90% of all human knowledge and experience. Thank you for the vote of confidence but I would like to invite everyone [in]," realizing how broad this mandate was. 
The my adventurers were fun because in many ways this was one of the blankest slates existing at Olin, the question of what we do with arts, humanities and social sciences. 
Everything I have mentioned about competencies was a big part of my narrative because I was continually trying to weave together all of the threads. So hearing I was in charge of arts, humanities and social sciences endeavor with a little bit of a distracting side trip for Olin because I was saying no we should all deal with these principles, all be thinking about the arts, humanities and social sciences and by the way. I am getting tongue tied. 
We came up with an abbreviation at Olin of AHS. It sounds like the Wizard of Oz, but AHS at Olin stands for arts, humanities and social sciences. So I would like to use the term AHS if that’s okay. So when I say AHS and by the way the Wizard of AHS was one of my titles in the early years because I was trying to work magic and trying to bring these, you know, disciplines into the engineering mindset and into the educational goals and come up with creative ways of doing it. So I loved being called the Wizard of AHS. 
So if I can use the term AHS, one of the great missions was saying AHS should be everywhere and engineers should be thinking of humanities as part of what they do and not separate but something thoroughly intertwined. 
So when we talk about design I was immediately thinking what do I do with that. You know, how do I grab on to that from an arts, humanities social science perspective, which of these disciplines fit design the best and I asked that question for every goal we had at Olin. If they were talking about quantitative analysis I was trying to think about something in the social sciences that might be quantitative. If we were talking about the importance of communication I might look into artistic or humanities disciplines and emphasize their role in communication instruction. 
So a lot of my early time the very first year at Olin was spent chairing meetings and inviting people into the meetings who usually started disclaiming themselves and explaining why they were not the right person for the meeting and I had to say yes you are and you want to talk about it and so building bridges was a large part of my personal narrative in the first year. 
The first year was broken up into a bunch of modules where we formed sub committees and tackled little issues because the whole curriculum design process was too big. 
I remember at one point I was on a committee that was looking at many different things. I was on the competencies committee. We tried to define a list of competencies and figure out they they work. 
I was on a committee that ended up being out of existence. It was the GATES committee and-- we have these "gates" that should be seen as check-in points for students and the Olin curriculum as a whole and should we periodically have a gate where the whole communities passes and say what have we learned and where are we going and that committee ended up saying no we should not have gates. 
So the committee investigated the question and decided it was not the best way to proceed. I make it sound simpler and for a long time we were planning to have gates and only after a very long period decided not to. That was one of the things I worked on. 
I worked on a lot of questions of humanities requirements and communication teaching and things like that. So my first year’s narrative was working on these different committees and continually telling people hey we’re all in this together.. the humanities are not something you can hand to a subset of our people. We have to all be thinking about that. You could be doing that in technical courses and I could be doing technical things in the humanities courses. 
That’s not saying disciplinary expertise is irrelevant because we have to respect each other’s expertise and not everyone can teach everything but there’s a way to integrate and give the students a holistic perspective that respects the real world better than sort of the artificial bins created by the disciplinary academy. 
So would you like me to get even more specific? Would a more specific narrative do or that kind of Rob’s narrative?
MEL-R1: Try getting more specific. 
ROB 1: So let’s see. I’m talking about the partner year. Do you want me to keep talking about that year? 
MEL-R1: Sure. 
ROB 1: So we could focus on that. So some very cool things that were happening. Let’s see. I was working hard on the first year experience at Olin. I remember that was something that matters because at Olin we all agreed we had to get the AHS disciplines into the mix right away. 
I could take a quick side note and say that was something beautiful about my time at Olin. I was expecting and I don’t know why but I expected more of a battle for the legitimacy of non technical work at Olin. That never happened. Everyone at Olin completely agreed it was important. At worst I was told a very respectful version of Rob we want that to happen and none of us can do it except you. So you take that on. 
That’s why I had that comment about me receiving 90% of human knowledge. That was said with great respect. It was said as a way of trying to get me to do something the right way and people were trying not to interfere in my business. 
In interviewing the first year curriculum one of my goals was to saying we’re all doing this together. Interdisciplinary work is fun -- not integrating AHS into what everyone else was doing. 
Ironic, one of the persons... [dropped part of the convo] ...staffing challenge that I was the only full time person in humanities or social science or art field and as a result there was no way to get in humanities or social science perspective in every possible first-semester activity and we had to work with Babson college and staffing humanities teaching and for reasons like that we were not able to integrate but I ended up working with a first-semester activity. 
It was Sarah Adams, Jon and Mark teaching an integrated math, engineering and physics activity. It was project based. 
This was in the first year of Olin. So, planned in the partner year and rolled it out during the next fall. So it was one of the very first offerings made at Olin. 
The 3 worked together on the exciting integrated project they were doing and as much as I could I was trying to help them plan it but really I was not the right person to help them do that. 
It was particularly challenging because they were one group of three but there were other groups of 3. So mathematician, physical scientist and engineer, 3 projects in parallel working on ways to integrate the 3 topics together. 
I ended up more in the Mark, John and Sarah camp because they were working on some project development where they wanted to bring in a history of technology perspective. They said Rob would you join us. So in that way I snuck into one of the first semester integrated activities. 
Even though I was teaching a separate history of technology course to first year students I was in some ways a small part of what they were doing in their project. 
Coming into their classroom was one of the biggest thrills I had in the first year just because I had a lot of the same students in my stand alone history course and it was really fun, but it was so different to be working with them on a project and be able to say you know something, 
let’s pick up and talk about Isaac Newton or to bring in some other idea. How do you think this invention you’re creating would have looked differently in the 19th century. At the end of Edison which constraints would be different, how would the opportunities be different. 
I even tried putting on an entrepreneur’s hat and saying right now you’re trying to design something that works well in the laboratory. Would you imagine this having a real-world flavor. Could you imagine this taking on societal characteristics and changing the world in different ways as something rolled out as a product. 
The students were eating it up in a way that beyond the enthusiasm they had showed in my history course. I should point out it was a very enthusiastic history group. So there was nothing wrong with that activity but it was up a level when doing it in an engineering context. 
There was the thrilling sense of everything fits together. This project can bring it all together and everything fits in. 
So this is where when you’re talking about design you could teach design in a stand-alone course or teach in an authentic project environment where you say hey let’s bring in math and how does science affect this and how would an anthropologist talk about the design process. That’s where the light bulb goes off for students. 
I remember coming into their classroom one time in the first semester, I think in October and just being the guest lecturer that was supposed to happen once and it was a series of 3 visits. 
So we ended up on the spot broadening my role a little bit and I had to stop doing that because there was so much going on in the history course and my efforts were needed there.
The project had some many other, you know, fires that they were putting out and opportunities to realize they could not devote many resources to my piece of it. 
It was a very early thrill for me that in some ways led me deeper into the idea of interdisciplinary integration which culminated into something I taught in the second year curriculum, integrated course with Jon, the stuff of history which was basically saying if we could have that much fun in a few sessions what do we do with a whole course together. 
So designing the integrated history and material science course was one of my big turning points that lives large in my narrative. So Mel should I talk about that or reorient me with something different? 
MEL-R1: I would actually like to pause for a moment. I think Terry has been typing for a superlong time. So Terry if you would like a 15 minute break and Rob and I can start the process of going back through the transcript and seeing what the heck is all this. That might give us an idea of how to spend the last 10-15 minutes of Rob’s story telling time 
ROB 1: That sounds great. 
MEL-R1: So basically Terry will pause and we won’t have transcription for a while. Rob, you and I will do a little bit of a read back into what we’ve said so far and see what have we wrought wrought. [Laughter] and then Terry will rejoin us and based on what we’ve talked about so far we can decide what to do with the last 10 minutes in the story telling time today.
ROB 1: Perfect. 
MEL-R1: Does that sound good TERRY (typing): It sounds so wonderful you cannot believe. Thank you. 
MEL-R1: Terry come back at, what is it now, 11:15 and Rob and I will look at things so-- Rob do you want a break?
ROB 1: Could I have a 2 minute break to refill the water bottle?
MEL-R1: Absolutely. Holler when you’re ready to return.
ROB 1: Great. I’ll be right back.
MEL-R1: Okay. 
MEL-R1: Terry you can stop now. Let us know when you’re back. TERRY (typing): 11:15, right? Okay. 
MEL-R1: This is exactly what I was hoping would happen. That’s something we can talk about and Terry can transcribe it faster than we would be able to type. 
ROB 1: Yes, yes, that’s right. 
MEL-R1: So whatever you’re ready to jump back into the conversation in audio, let me know. 
ROB 1: Okay let me take another minute or two and we’ll be ready. 
MEL-R1: Sounds good. 
Although I (Mel) gave Rob the option of looking at the transcript while we talked, he ended up not doing it; it was distracting.
Rob said that seeing his words in realtime may have added to his ability to tell a better story while he was telling it, but he couldn't -- it was confusing to read his last sentence while trying to come up with his next sentence
I replied that in all the pilots I've done with this technique, everyone has done exactly what Rob's done -- I may be the only person looking at the transcript as it's being written, but I'm also not the one telling the story.
In future interviews, when I present people with the option to read the transcript in real time, I should tell them that most people don't because they find it distracting, so they know what the norm is.
Rob said he'd be happy to go back and explain/contextualize his stories more. I replied that would be great and he could do that if he wanted to, but he didn't have to, and that adding the context was also my job -- to go get the background information and documents and details to flesh in the stories he tells. I also let him know about Terri Dunphy's role in the project, as the staff member who'll be helping to fill in some background details with her story, and he said that was a good call.
ROB 1: I could keep going but if you would like to talk more that’s fine. I’m happy to keep typing 
MEL-R1: Let’s start again because we have 6 more times over the next year to talk about this. [There are] Five more [storytelling sessions focused] specifically on go Rob story, go, go! 
I’d like to do 2 things before we wrap up. I’m not sure how much time we want to spend on each of them. 
One is that while Terry is still here transcribing and will leave about 15 minutes before the hour and then you and I can wrap up and whatever we decide to be done we’re done. I would like to get your thoughts on what this process has felt like so far. 
We mentioned wow it’s kind of hard to see yourself being transcribed but also the stories you’ve told, do you notice yourself doing certain things, telling stories a certain way, focusing on a lot of stuff? 
You made comments about wanting to reorganize some of the order you tell things if you want to go back and do that. So the meta-commentary of how this experience has been for you. 
ROB 1: That’s interesting. I was thinking about that. I was a little surprised to read my words while they’re so fresh in my mind. That is a fantastic opportunity Mel and Terry. So thank you both for that. 
It made me realize even as I was talking I was a little bit aware of my tendency to sort of hyper focus on one issue, and then maybe, you know, maybe lose sight of some of the connections that should have been part of that discussion. 
So it came up when I was writing in my comments just now. 
I was talking about, you asked about design and I was talking about design and how it was unfolding. I wasn’t, and I was so excited about that, that I wasn’t thinking about things like design as one of the competencies which would have been a very nice way to start, right, by saying oh, actually design was around in a very early form from the beginning as a competency. 
Notice, I didn’t do that. I jumped in and plowed down into what is the spirit of design, how does design relate to engineering. I got in very deep and I would say almost a little farther than I should have to the point it was maybe not as helpful or accurate as it could have been. 
A later question somehow caused me to back up a bit and say wait a minute. There were competencies from the beginning. Design was one of those competencies. 
So that’s something I’m noticing about myself, right, is that this process for me is reawakening all of these memories in a surprisingly linear one goes to another goes to another very deep down and perhaps more of a circular way or iterative way would have been more productive for me, right, just to say design was one of many things going on. Oh, some of the other things actually connect to do design also . 
Instead I said "Design, yes, here is an association with design." That leads to 5 more associations with design that leads to one very specific [missing word] about design. 
I’m not saying you should do anything differently about your narrative but it’s why I think I was partly realizing this when I kept saying Mel how am I doing? Should we back up? That was sort of my attempt to recognize what was going on as it was happening and say Mel have I totally gotten off of the subject here? What are we doing?
So reading my own words a little bit less of that as I went on in the interview. So I think it was more of an early part where I was just really not prepared to dive in yet. 
That was the thing that jumped out at me the most. That’s what’s beautiful about the process is it leaves an opening for people to go back and say oh, [missing word]why I went that far. I should have cut it here and brought in the thing I said later for a richer treatment of the space behind the question. 
MEL-R1: I’m hoping-- what we’ll probably end up doing in the next 5 interviews is a lot of circling back and effectively giving you the opportunity to tell the narrative of design 6 times.
ROB 1: Okay, very nice. 
MEL-R1: And one of the things I was planning on doing is when I go through and do the analysis and the short summary version, sending you that so if you want to look at the like 3-page version of what I think you said, and the comments that you made, to help reshuffle what you want to say next time, you’ll have that to help restructure that for the next go round.
ROB 1: I love that very much. 
Seeing what you believe to be the 3-page narrative would very quickly help me identify if something went wrong, you know. On the other hand, it would help me say, more likely I might say "good, the 3-page narrative is exactly what I wanted it to say." Then when I read the transcript I would say "what the heck was I saying." 
It would be clear to me that at least you got the 3-page narrative you wanted to say and the little errors I’m focusing on are details that are trivial. 
I could see it going either way. Something is fundamentally flawed about the way I approach and we would have to call it and say the 3-page narrative is no what I intended or good we’re on the same page but I wish had not said um or said these things in the opposite order. 
MEL-R1: That’s really one of the most exciting parts about this project is on the one level it’s a study of how professors talk about curricular design and design in the curriculum so using design in different ways is also there. 
On another level I’m also interested in the process of how we tell and retell these stories. Usually it doesn’t get shown very much, and I’m trying to pop the hood this is what research looks like behind the scenes. We reshuffle our ideas a lot before we get them on paper. 
ROB 1: Yes and by the way, Mel, one thing you did that was very valuable was the time you gave me 2 questions at the same time and kind of let me decide. 
You notice it ended up I started with one and wobbled it to the other. Even if I didn’t end up hitting both of them, this was a way for me to counteract this tendency of drilling too deep in one topic. 
You gave me this bigger picture in the beginning and it helped my mind see things, make connections right up front as opposed to discovering after I had been talking for a while. So kudos to you for that technique. 
MEL-R1: I debated on that. I think it’s something I’ll try with other Olin faculty because I know you folks and for you [specifically, Rob] holding multiple things in the brain at once is awesome rather than confusing. The Berea faculty I don’t know as well. So I have no idea how that will work for them. How did it work for you?
ROB 1: It really was helpful. 
I am different from Jon and Lynn in the design sense. To my knowledge they both taught design courses, yeah, they have. So they’ve really engaged us in direct ways, in non abstract ways. They’ve looked at principles, assessed student work, they’ve stood up and talked to students about everything you’re asking. For me I have never had that experience. 
So I have always been thinking about how I can connect to design but in my own identity not as a designer, right as someone who values it and wants to basically hitch my wagon to that cart and so I can then take a turn pulling the design cart in my direction but as someone a little bit separate. 
So I think the-- you’ll see different responses to some of the prompts because for me I was sometimes fumbling around saying oh, yeah those guys were doing something important a couple of years ago, but yet at the time I was able to ignore it because I was swamped with something else where they could never ignore it. 
If they heard about design at any point in the back of both of their minds is okay I might be doing this some day. You know I need to be at least partially paying attention to it. So there’s something psychological going on there about the way I think about it. 
MEL-R1: That’s awesome. One of the things that, at least one of my committee members, my advisor Robin, is interested in is that for the perspective across disciplinary settings. So how does your perspective differ from theirs because of exactly that.
ROB 1: Good. 
MEL-R1: It’s so helpful also that you’re aware of all of these things. I love being able to talk on a meta level with people this in these areas. 
ROB 1: Yeah, this is fun, I know. 
MEL-R1: Okay. So given that we have Terry transcribing for a bit, about a little over 5 minutes left, would you rather try to tell another story or retell one of your stories that you told, or say let’s save that for the second interview and instead now maybe talk about the high points or if you were going to summarize what you said in this round what would that be? A summary or another story? 
ROB 1: That’s a good question. Let me think. If there’s another story that needs to be told I’ll go that way. So let me try and figure this out. The evolution of design at Olin. I’m thinking out loud so you see what’s happening.
MEL-R1: Great. 
ROB 1: Evolution of design in Olin focused on the partner year in what we talked about today and that’s good, I think. So I’m trying to think about if there’s anything else in the first couple of years that I should try and talk about. Let’s see. 
MEL-R1: Keep in mind we have a lot more interviews to go. 
ROB 1: Yes, we do. One thing-- I know. I’m sure we’ll do some of both things there. I’m not sure there’s much I could summarize that would be that helpful. 
So I think perhaps one thing that I could talk about little bit is the closest I ever came to teaching design is something we didn’t touch on yet. That’s whenever I teach an integrated course with someone else. 
This ties the things I’ve been saying about being someone in the AHS part of Olin I teach things that have a different look at design that’s not engineering design at all. It’s a much less nuanced version of what design is. It’s more saying how would you design your presentation as opposed to let’s talk about the field of engineering design and all of its richness. 
So when I do design on my own, especially before I met the designers here at Olin it took on more of a superficial tone. I used the word design the way anyone uses design, nothing complicated. 
When you I first taught the course the stuff of history, double sized course taught by myself as a representative of the social sciences and Jon Stolk as a representative of engineering and materials science I was immediately required to think about this as an engineering project as well. So I couldn’t just say hey I’m the humanities guy. Don’t bother me with that stuff. 
Sorry, did someone just say something
MEL-R1: I don’t think so. Terry are you doing okay? TERRY (in writing): Yes. I’m fine. I think Mel said um, okay.
ROB 1: Anyway when I was doing the stuff of history I could no longer be an interested, outside observer to the engineering techniques. I was part of it. I was in the inner circle, very exciting for me. 
The way this reacted with design was very intriguing because Jon and I believed in competencies and the role of competencies in a course more than most other faculty at Olin did at that time. 
We both thought that competencies were the way to organize a whole course. So I was looking at one competency titled design and saying to myself does this fit, if so how? 
It started me thinking. It’s one thing to say you value competency. It’s another thing to actually teach it and assess it. 
So I would say integrated teaching for me was a real eye opener. It brought me into contact with things such as engineering design in a way I never had before. 
That was where I started realizing this is a big deal. This is something-- engineering design is something that students should be learning early and they should be connecting to everything they’re doing because engineering design is one way of saying, as an engineer you don’t know everything of the as an engineer there are things you need to intentionally identify as unknowns, and seek help understanding. 
That doesn’t sound that profound because no one understands everything. 
No engineer understands everything. People should realize that, but it’s easy to lose sight of that at any level of education in any discipline. You could say I have been taught and I have experience and I’m going to keep doing stuff I’m good at. 
It’s easy to forget hey I don’t get it. I’m operating in one paradigm and I don’t get other people’s paradigm and I’m operating with set of assumptions and tools and there’s many that I don’t get, and could I put that on the table at the beginning and identify that I’m doing this in a certain way and we have to keep circling back. 
You know, metacognitive fashion and realize there’s stuff I don’t know. In one way engineering design is asking students to do that. 
So it’s saying be aware of what you’re not able to do. Be aware of your constraints. Be aware of things such as clients and users and customers who may not share your values while you have to maintain a truth to your own ethics and to your own expertise you can’t just let the customer dictate what to do if you know that’s unsafe or if you believe it’s wrong or many other reasons. 
You don’t just blindly follow these users and customers but you have to understand them. 
So teaching in an integrated manner helped me see a design as something bigger than a technical tool, and see it more as mindset and a philosophy in a sense. 
Doing that with the students was wonderful because it was a struggle at times. Students sometimes don’t want to hear that. That sounds inefficient. 
Working with with a student who is trying to finish a project and answer a question, you get into the questions of just tell me what you want. Tell me how to do this. You’re the teacher, Rob: I’m a student and have one week to work on this. Tell me what you’re looking for. 
And saying to them I will not do that. I’m intentionally going to resist doing that because I need you to struggle and do it different ways inefficiently at times in order to understand the nuances of problem solving that are bigger than any discipline we’re operating within this moment. That was wonderful for me. 
I think by the end of the course the students got it. They saw intentional struggle and the methods were as valuable as getting the answer, quote, "right," the first time. 
The struggle was more important than this quote "efficiency" that was something that you know, engineers are just so focused on at the outset saying "there’s a right answer and efficient process. I’m going to learn it and that’s my job as a student to become more efficient and get things right," and trying to shatter that as early as possible is one of my great missions at Olin and design was helping me do that. 
MEL-R1: Cool. 
ROB 1: How’s that’s for my last five minutes. 
MEL-R1: That’s fantastic. We have to let Terry go now. So Terry thank you so much. Rob and I are going to keep talking but drop out of the Skype call whenever you like and we’ll catch up later.
ROB 1: Thank you Terry. 
TERRY (in text): You’re welcome. Thank you and bye.
