CHARACTER INTRO

I am currently a professor of the history of science and technology. I have a bachelor’s degree in a science discipline and a master’s degree in engineering before I entered my Ph.D. program in history... [so] by training I have sampled science, engineering... [and] the social sciences. I would also like to talk about what I do at Olin college. I’m sort of weird... in my intellectual vitality space... in the sense that I have... a 2x2 grid... [with] a history side and education side... a research side and an application or practice side. That gives you 4 boxes: history of research, history of application, educational research, educational application.

More specifically, to fill in the boxes on the history side, I’m very interested in early American history. I’ve studied Paul Revere before, looking at him as an artisan as well as a patriot. Then on the history application side I like to bring my information to the public.  I love presenting in front of public audiences such as libraries, public groups, sort of historical societies.  I have worked as well with the Paul Revere house and the U.S. Constitution Museum designing exhibits of the history of technology to the people in an applied setting. On the education side I have worked with Jonathan Stolk... [to look] at many issues through NSF funded research projects... interdisciplinary education, the implications of project based learning and intrinsic motivation of students.... We have studied, gathered data, published some results but also done a lot of outreach with the workshops... [at] different schools in America and places like Chile or Brazil.

OTHER SECTIONS

Going back, when I think of Olin’s curricular design process... we’ll have a challenge... because the word design is used in several ways... I’ll try my best to keep them straight.

I was hired to work in Olin in 2001. I was hired out of graduate school. I was told "Welcome, and we’re glad to have you here, you’re in charge of all arts, humanities and social science teaching at Olin. Best of luck with that. Let us know how that turns out.” I expected more of a battle for the legitimacy of non technical work at Olin.  That never happened. Everyone at Olin completely agreed it was important.  At worst I was told a very respectful version of "Rob, we want that to happen and none of us can do it except you." It was said as a way of trying to get me to do something the right way and people were trying not to interfere in my business. I once said at a faculty meeting: "You have just given me 90% of all human knowledge and experience. Thank you for the vote of confidence, but I would like to invite everyone [to help]." So a lot of my early time the very first year at Olin was spent chairing meetings and inviting people into the meetings who usually started disclaiming themselves and explaining why they were not the right person for the meeting, and I had to say "Yes you are, and you want to talk about it," and so building bridges was a large part of my personal narrative in the first year.

We came up with an abbreviation at Olin of AHS. It sounds like the Wizard of Oz, but AHS at Olin stands for "arts, humanities and social sciences." The Wizard of AHS was one of my titles in the early years because I was trying to work magic and trying to bring these disciplines into the engineering mindset and into the educational goals and come up with creative ways of doing it. One of the great missions was saying AHS should be everywhere and engineers should be thinking of humanities as part of what they do and not separate but something thoroughly intertwined. So when we talk about design I was immediately thinking what do I do with that.

We had one [Partner Year] to design curriculum before open[ing] the doors to the first class of students. We had 30 student Partners helping to design the curriculum... [a] one year period of pure planning and design followed by ...continuing years of some combination of teaching and revising what we’re teaching and again building that airplane as we fly it. In the early years there were a lot of stops and starts. It was very interesting... we mentioned the blank slate and building the airplane as [it was] flying... What’s interesting to me is that engineering as design came into the story surprisingly late, I would say. I would say it did not come in that much during Olin’s Partner Year, but came in later.

You would think that we would be talking a lot in the first year as engineering as design and issues like that, but...we were focusing on questions of engineering disciplines or interdisciplinary approach. We were talking quite a bit about project-based learning.  There was an endless discussion among a lot of people regarding: should we have projects as a way to deliver content? Should we have projects as the focus itself and all other objectives be secondary to the importance of delivering projects?  Do we have large projects or small projects or one project or multiple projects? So that came across a lot. We were talking a lot about what I saw at the time even as distracting issues such as accreditation, questions of how much we were concerned about the way we were viewed by the outside world versus how much should we articulate what we care about and what we stand for.  

Engineering design entered at most in the periphery of these discussions I would say looking back. We would talk about design as a piece of what engineers do, one of many parts of engineering. We might talk about engineers as designers and then move on quickly to say engineers are also modelers, problem solvers, masters of certain realms of content, apply scientific principles to the real world. These were all weighted equally as possible angles [on] engineering.

When people just got the sense of the word design being extremely relevant, not just as a piece of engineering but as an identifier of the identity of engineering, that was a big change... in how we designed our curriculum, the impact of our curriculum, the goals of our curriculum. The idea of engineering as design grew [into] something that really eclipsed many of the other questions. We said, "You know something? Design is a rich concept, it’s so broad you could fit so much under the umbrella of design that it’s actually okay to describe engineering as design." Within that you were then allowed to do all the things I mentioned before. You could say [that] part of the design process is modeling, part of the design process is analysis. We’re not saying the other parts of engineering don’t exist or are not important, but design becomes a framework that encapsulates some of the others. 

Therefore when we look at our curriculum, [you could] say designers need human skills. They need to be able to interview people, to communicate their findings.  Let’s do that in our curriculum. Designers need to be connected to content and to scientific principles.  So they were able to bring those principles into the design process.  So let’s make sure our students are able to do that.  Designers are able to model.  You have to come up with a design and then come up with some way of modeling what you’re trying to accomplish and modeling what you’re starting to accomplish if you want to adjust your direction.  So let’s build modeling into the curriculum.  So even if everyone at Olin doesn’t always use the word design in all of these contexts -- people at Olin might just focus on modeling or science -- Olin as a school has increasingly accepted the role of design as an organizing framework and as a way of looking at our curriculum.

The design stream is one of the more coherent, one of the most impactful pieces of Olin’s curriculum; there’s something about the design stream that has received more weight, [and] I think it’s in part because it’s so clearly connected to so much what what we do that students and faculty are on the same page. So as we all started talking about the design process and the tools of design, I think it made us better designers as curriculum builders; all of us became educated in the principle of design and therefore better equipped to design a curriculum. As engineering educators, we all kind of accepted our role as designers, teaching some aspects of design even as we’re teaching, arts, humanities, social sciences, science, math or engineering.  So there’s a first crack at design from someone who is not identified as a design instructor.

I was immersed in a different challenge; I was working on the arts, humanities and social sciences stream, [so] some of the nuances of the technical design process slipped past me and I might have become more aware of them only when they bubbled up to such an obvious degree that they had already been codified. I have always been thinking about how I can connect to design, but in my own identity -- not as a designer [but] as someone who values it and wants to basically hitch my wagon to that cart. I am different from [your other Olin narrators,] Jon [Stolk] and Lynn [Stein]. They both taught design courses. So they’ve really engaged us in direct ways, in non abstract ways. They’ve looked at principles, assessed student work, they’ve stood up and talked to students about everything you’re asking. For me, I have never had that experience. I was able to ignore it because I was swamped with something else where they could never ignore it.  If they heard about design at any point, in the back of both of their minds is "Okay I might be doing this some day, I need to be at least partially paying attention to it."

I would have to think hard to figure out when I would say [design] came into explicit discussion. Certainly the hiring of design faculty was a turning point, when we started saying "Here is a faculty member who may be seen as a mechanical engineer, but he is really a designer first and a [practitioner of an engineering] discipline second." I remember some design faculty appearing at Olin and [were] instantly seen as valuable and I loved working with them. At first they seemed like all the rest of us, teaching courses in their field. I remember from an early point seeing courses that had the word "design" very prominently in the title. "Design Nature" [is] one example; design courses appeared with a very clear emphasis on the role of design in the outcomes of the course. I think there were earlier courses that absolutely were teaching engineering design but it was not as clearly articulated. 

[During the first year of classes], Sarah Adams, Jon [Stolk] and Mark [Somerville were] teaching an integrated math, engineering and physics activity, one of the very first offerings made at Olin. They wanted to bring in a history of technology perspective [and] said "Rob, would you join us?" So in that way I snuck into one of the first semester integrated activities, even though I was teaching a separate "History of Technology" course to first year students.

Coming into their classroom was one of the biggest thrills I had in the first year, just because I had a lot of the same students in my stand alone history course. It was so different to be working with them on a project and be able to say "How do you think this invention you’re creating would have looked differently in the 19th century?  At the end of Edison which constraints would be different, how would the opportunities be different?" The students were eating it up in a way that [went] beyond the enthusiasm they had showed in my history course. There was the thrilling sense of "everything fits together."  This project can bring it all together and everything fits in.  So this is where when you’re talking about design -- you could teach design in a stand-alone course, or teach in an authentic project environment where you say, "hey let’s bring in math, and how does science affect this, and how would an anthropologist talk about the design process?" That’s where the light bulb goes off for students.

[I was] the guest lecturer that was supposed [have] a series of 3 visits... [but it went so well] we ended up on the spot broadening my role a little bit. [Eventually] I had to stop doing that because there was so much going on in the history course and my efforts were needed there, [and] the [math, science, and engineering] project had many other fires that they were putting out [so the other professors also] realized they could not devote many resources to my piece of it. [The next year, Jon Stolk and I said], "If [we] could have that much fun in a few sessions, what could we do with a whole course together?"

[That turned into] an integrated course called the Stuff of History, [which is] the closest I ever came to teaching design. [It's a] double-sized course taught by myself as a representative of the social sciences and Jon Stolk as a representative of engineering and materials science. I was immediately required to think about this as an engineering project as well, so I couldn’t just say "Hey, I’m the humanities guy. Don’t bother me with that stuff." I could no longer be an interested, outside observer to the engineering techniques.  I was part of it.

The way this reacted with design was very intriguing because Jon and I believed in competencies and the role of competencies in a course more than most other faculty at Olin did at that time. [Competencies are] another angle to use in addressing the question [of design in Olin's curriculum]. The intent was to say "we’re going to teach a lot of disciplinary topics, a lot of little courses, and we don’t want this to be incoherent, so let’s identify 9 real learning objectives that multiple courses must touch upon, and if we don’t educate students in these 9 areas we have failed with educators." So it was a nice way to put our money where our mouth was. Olin debated, and we had a big list and cut it down to a tiny list. Design was one of those competencies. So design was wrestled with as something broader than or bigger than a specific course or major, something that could be achieved through many different courses.  

[Jon and I] both thought that competencies were the way to organize a whole course. It’s one thing to say you value competency.  It’s another thing to actually teach it and assess it. We use the competencies to drive grading. "Your qualitative analysis grade is A- because that was very strong with just a few areas where you might get better, and the design grade is a B- because that was the weakness of this assignment." So in a case like that, with instructors who take the competencies seriously, something like design would be something that matters if we put that into our course. Many instructors did not take the competencies in such a serious tone and focused on other grading schemes. So that’s where a design instructor would be very helpful for saying "This course really is about design, and therefore I’m absolutely going to emphasize these design principles." So through some classes like that, the students would learn about design, and it would rise to a higher level of consciousness, of awareness in our curriculum.

There was certainly a turning point where [design] was not just [in] isolated courses but it was a principle that would exist throughout many courses. Engineering design is something that students should be learning early and connecting to everything they’re doing, because engineering design is one way of saying you don’t know everything. As an engineer, there are things you need to intentionally identify as unknowns, and seek help understanding. 

That doesn’t sound that profound because no one understands everything.  No engineer understands everything. People should realize that, but it’s easy to lose sight of that at any level of education in any discipline, [to go] metacognitive and realize "there’s stuff I don’t know." In one way engineering design is asking students to do that. So it’s saying be aware of what you’re not able to do.  Be aware of your constraints.  Be aware of things such as clients and users and customers who may not share your values. While you have to maintain a truth to your own ethics and to your own expertise, you can’t just let the customer dictate what to do if you know that’s unsafe or if you believe it’s wrong. You don’t just blindly follow these users and customers, but you have to understand them.  

So teaching in an integrated manner helped me see a design as something bigger than a technical tool, and see it more as mindset and a philosophy in a sense.  

Doing that with the students was wonderful because it was a struggle at times. Students sometimes don’t want to hear that. That sounds inefficient. Working with with a student who is trying to finish a project and answer a question, you get into the questions of "Just tell me what you want. Tell me how to do this. You’re the teacher, Rob:  I’m a student and have one week to work on this.  Tell me what you’re looking for." And saying to them [as a teacher], "I will not do that. I’m intentionally going to resist doing that because I need you to struggle and do it different ways inefficiently at times in order to understand the nuances of problem solving that are bigger than any discipline we’re operating within this moment." That was wonderful for me.  

I think by the end of the course the students got it.  They saw intentional struggle and the methods were as valuable as getting the answer, quote, “right,” the first time. The struggle was more important than this, quote, “efficiency” that was something that, you know, engineers are just so focused on at the outset, saying “there’s a right answer, I’m going to learn it, and that’s my job as a student: to become more efficient and get things right." Trying to shatter that as early as possible is one of my great missions at Olin and design was helping me do that.
