NARRATOR MEL: This is me kicking myself, because despite the MP3 recorder saying that it was recording, it was not, in fact, recording Rob's last interview. So given that it's immediately after the interview, I'm going to try to reconstruct it by talking out loud, recording, transcribing, and editing myself, then sending the document to Rob for his comments. It's not verbatim. It's not gonna be as awesome as Rob would have been if we had Rob's recording. But we had a prompt document, and that will hopefully jog our recent memory.
This means that instead of just "Rob" and "Mel" as usual, you’ll see 4 speakers. "Narrator Mel" and "Narrator Rob" are us reconstructing the transcript in the present, which (for us) is the morning of January 24 through the evening of January 25, 2015. "Remembered Mel" and "Remembered Rob" are what we think we remember ourselves saying, verbatim or close to verbatim, during the original interview in the evening of January 23, 2015. Interspersed between these 4 speakers is the entirety of the prompt we were working from.
REMEMBERED MEL: I was thinking of 3 things we could go through to wrap up our last session. The first one is that you had asked to see how the other Olin faculty were describing you. So I pulled some of those excerpts out, and that’s in the prompt this time. The second one is that I wanted to give you an overview of my baby (embryonic) results. And third one is that I want to ask you more directly about my research question of understanding faculty as learners and this whole process that we've been going through.
NARRATOR MEL: I originally presented them in a slightly different order, but that’s the order we decided to go through them in. Rob started going through the prompts.
NARRATOR ROB: Sure, we had the typical friendly start to the transcript with a bit of waffling on my end about what order to tackle the topics. This captures the jist of it, and nothing interesting happened until we dove into the Jon and Lynn transcripts.
REMEMBERED ROB: I’m looking at "Jon #1," and yes, I agree. Jon and I have talked about the way that Olin always thought and talked about project based learning ideas that closely correlated with design thinking, but we didn’t really start articulating design concepts explicitly until the later years.
PROMPT: JON #1
Jon: What Rob says is very consistent with my own experience. That might be also because I know Rob a lot better and we have so many discussions about Olin history and about what things were like in the early days. So it could be that that through those discussions our perceptions have converged to some extent or narratives have somehow aligned because we know each other so well. (reading from Rob) "We had design there at the beginning. On the other hand there’s truth to what I said. We were not highlighting this as design-- open ended project." That’s exactly how I remember it, that we were talking about designing things, open-ended problems, hands on experience, project based learning, but we were not, I would say our conceptualization of design wasn’t the same in the early days. 
NARRATOR MEL: We moved on.
PROMPT: LYNN #1
LYNN: I wonder whether Rob (and Jon) remember(s) that SDP needed to be designed *before* Ben was hired, and that Jill and I had been handed the task. Also, part of what Rob credits to Ben is really Chris Heape.
REMEMBERED ROB: SDP?
REMEMBERED MEL: Stands for Sophomore Design Project.
REMEMBERED ROB: Yes, thank you. Thank you, Lynn, for reminding me of these details. 
REMEMBERED MEL: Lynn has this character trait of paying attention to details a lot. Lynn and I have talked about this in her interviews.
REMEMBERED ROB: Lynn does pay a lot of attention to detail. I had some distance from the process of coming up with the design stuff at Olin since I was working on other things, and I wonder if that’s why I did not pick up on Chris Heape’s contributions. Nowadays, Ben Linder is often the face of design at Olin, and everyone says "Ben brought all of this design stuff to Olin." That is not to minimize that Ben has, in fact done a lot of stuff. He has. But I wonder if people now at Olin may have forgotten Chris Heape or not know about Chris Heape's contribution to this whole process because we focus on the person who is still here and who is still making contributions.
REMEMBERED MEL: The first two prompts, Jon #1 and Lynn #1, seem to me to illustrate a little bit of their personalities and the way they portray their relationship to you in the stories they’re telling. Jon would say a lot of things like, "Rob and I agree. We shared these experiences, we're on the same page." Whereas Lynn tended to point out "Oh, I remember this detail differently. I remember this detail differently."
NARRATOR MEL: We talked a little bit about what it means for Jon and Lynn and Rob to be characters in these stories, but I only remember what I said about it. 
NARRATOR ROB: I will add in some of what I think I said now:
REMEMBERED ROB: Lynn is certainly a detail oriented person, this is one of her strengths in a team situation. I don’t think of myself as a non-detail person but compared to Lynn that is accurate. However, when Lynn brings up a detail there is usually something important behind it, something added to the discussion by that neglected detail. So part of the challenge is for me to figure out what makes that detail valuable, when clearly I discounted the value by forgetting it in the first place...
REMEMBERED MEL: As we say these things about "Lynn’s like this, and Rob’s like that," I want to acknowledge that we are talking about people that both of us have a history of knowing and interacting with for years. We have existing relationships and common experiences, and that’s going to come out in our transcript. And when we talk about each other as characters in these stories, or analyze each other as characters or storytellers, we all have perceptions of one another that may or may not overlap. I might see Lynn a little differently than you see Lynn, but we both have this kind of idea of Lynn in our heads. And then there’s the actual person of Lynn, and her own idea of herself, Lynn-about-Lynn. Just kinda pulling back the curtain and specifically pointing out all these things are interacting behind the scenes, in the moment of Rob and Mel having this conversation right now.
NARRATOR MEL: Again, I’m pretty sure Rob contributed to that discussion, but I don’t recall exactly how. We moved to the next prompt.
PROMPT: JON #2
MEL: [Autonomy is overwhelming] For a first year coming in and they say, "what am I studying," and you go, "everything!"
JON: Yeah but I think there’s something in between, right? Rob and I talk about this all the time. We made the mistake of having too big a space to explore, too much autonomy, too much [indistinguishable word] autonomy in our classes and we were not able to support it. So what you just described I don’t think we would be able to effectively support. So the response would not be a positive one, I don’t think. I can imagine something in between, right? I still think like we still have too much of a disciplinary fragmentation. It’s not real. It’s all created, all of these boxes. I don’t know what that looks like in practice but I’d like to try to create it. 
NARRATOR MEL: Rob said he wasn’t surprised, and that now all this stuff about autonomy seemed so obvious to him. This next part is a bit more paraphrase than verbatim, but here’s the content of what he said:
NARRATOR ROB: (I will add to the next paragraph!)
REMEMBERED ROB: Back then, I guess the value and the implementation of autonomy wasn’t obvious. We started out as a bunch of teachers with lots of practical experience about classroom dynamics, and some of this knowledge pertained to autonomy even if we didn’t use that term as much. 
Then some of us (Jon for sure, and me as a follower of Jon) did some educational research and got really excited by the possibilities and by the alignment with our experiences. So we thought that if a little autonomy is good, then a lot of autonomy must be really good. And that wasn't actually the case. 
Now autonomy is a big component of the research Jon and I do with intrinsic motivation, and part of what we have learned is the difference between theory and application. 
Jon’s comment is great because he cuts right to the take-home message, the value of the "in between" state for autonomy and for so much else. To me, this is the benefit of combining theory with practice, something Jon is the master of (and a real strength for Olin’s approach to educational research direction).
NARRATOR MEL: Rob described the process of learning about autonomy, and I don’t recall exactly what he said, so I’m missing a chunk of content here, but I’m okay with it. We looked at the next prompt, which is a long one, so I’ll split it up so readers of this transcript can follow our reactions more clearly.
PROMPT: LYNN #2 - PART 1
LYNN: Jon: This is really interesting. (reads from Lynn) "Yes we do know what we’re doing, why do you ask." I did not feel that way early on in UOCD. I actually felt like I didn’t know what I was doing, and in the early days of UOCD my sense was everyone in the room [was doing that too]...
REMEMBERED MEL: This is a little messy, so I might have to give you some navigation. This is Lynn reacting to Jon’s reaction to something Lynn had said. So Lynn said something -- "Yes we do know what we’re doing" -- and then Jon replied to that -- "I did not feel that way…" and now this is Lynn quoting Jon’s reaction to her own earlier statement.
REMEMBERED ROB: Oh, this is interesting.
REMEMBERED MEL: Also, Lynn did her interviews in text. In Skype text chat.
REMEMBERED ROB: This is Lynn typing?
REMEMBERED MEL: Yeah, because we both type really fast, and she was -- the little tiny imperfections in the realtime transcription bothered her, so she said "you know what, let’s both just type," so all her interviews have been in text, and that’s why the transcript looks this way.
REMEMBERED ROB: Yes, which fits in with the Lynn and attention to detail being important thing we talked about earlier.
PROMPT: LYNN #2 - PART 2
LYNN: LYNN realizes that Jon has no idea of when I am being sarcastic.
LYNN: LYNN wonders whether this is a fundamental misunderstanding in how Jon and I have been relating for the last decade or so… Rob reads that change of tone into my text, and Jon does not.
MEL: ...you're right. Hum. Well, you've also team-taught with Rob...
LYNN: and I think that this is actually very important outside the context of your dissertation.
LYNN: Yes...Rob and I do I think generally "get" one another.
MEL: "this is actually very important outside the context of your dissertation" == the text-tone-sarcasm thing, or the "maybe Jon/Lynn mutual understanding could be improved with humor-identification" thing?
LYNN: Seeing Jon's read of my text, I am wondering how often I intend things one way and Jon hears them another.
LYNN: In life, not just in this project.
REMEMBERED ROB: You immediately point out to Lynn "oh, you’ve team-taught with Rob." And I find that interesting because we only team-taught once, and it was a very long time ago. Probably something like 10 years ago. And in fact, you were in that class, it was "What is I." She and I have not team-taught since. We’ve team-taught with other people; Lynn with people like Caitrin and the UOCD team, and me with people like Jon Stolk and Jean Huang. Lynn, with Jon, with Jean Huang and so forth. 
The thing I love about team-teaching is that it teaches the teacher more than anyone else. You learn so much by team-teaching with someone because you see how they approach things, you see how they react to students. 
These observations are eye opening, you have to see a person’s teaching style to really understand it (and probably it is much easier to learn about teaching style from the perspective of a fellow teacher than as a student, when you are focusing on your own learning as much as on your teacher’s teaching). 
But after observing how your partner approaches teaching, you also start to see how you approach things, you see how you react to students. That is just amazing… you get this window into your own identity and values because you start holding yourself up to your partner’s example.
But even if it was only once, and a long time ago, it seems like team-teaching with Lynn was an important learning experience in terms of learning how to work with Lynn, and that has carried forward to the present day. Because Lynn, in the prompt, said, "Yes Rob and I do generally get one another." Maybe that's because we've team-taught; we've had that experience, and that has contributed to us getting one another. The class experience is long past, but it started the ball rolling so to speak, it started the process of looking at the other person differently.
NARRATOR MEL: By the way, I’m absolutely certain that I’m not remembering Rob verbatim here. This is the gist of what he said, except in complete sentences with punctuation and slightly more in logical order; in real conversation, Rob is thinking out loud and loops back on thoughts more often. But "it teaches the teacher more than anyone else" is verbatim from Rob, and stood out to me as a key phrase in what he said.
NARRATOR ROB: Sadly, Mel is being kind when she says "slightly more logical order" -- the "loops" she describes are enough to drive William Faulkner to the insane asylum and have Socrates reaching for that hemlock. But Mel stoically endures it all and puts a positive spin on things. Can we get more Mels please?
REMEMBERED ROB: And then Lynn says, "in life, not just in this project."
NARRATOR MEL: Rob started drawing our interview into a larger context, outside the context of curriculum.
REMEMBERED ROB: The way we teach, the pedagogical style that people have, it's not just a pedagogical style. There's something about your pedagogical style that ties to your approach to life. This isn't just the way you teach, this is the way you are as a person.
NARRATOR MEL: And so he started describing the things he noticed about Lynn and himself when they were teaching together, and their different teaching styles.
REMEMBERED ROB: When we were teaching "What Is I," Lynn would be very quick to go to the board and start drawing out things, I mean, literally drawing flowcharts and categories on the board. I don’t have that ability to make a diagram on the board in the middle of a conversation and say, "Okay, so what do we have going on here?" That's Lynn in the classroom. Outside the classroom, with Lynn as a colleague, say in a committee meeting, she tends to be the first one to start scribbling on post-it notes. "Let’s get these things out there, let’s get them down, how do they fall into categories?" 
Whereas I would be more of a discussion type person in "What is I." I would facilitate the discussion. "What do you think? What do you think? What do you think?" Trying to hear all the voices and encourage students to make connections and see other perspectives.
NARRATOR MEL: Rob acted out his ability to monitor and interrupt discussions in real-time. I’m trying to capture that here, but I’m not doing it justice. This is Rob portraying himself as a teacher monitoring a class discussion between two students who disagree:
REMEMBERED ROB: "Oh, wait a moment. That is fascinating. I think you said something different from what he just said. Can we stop here and can we look into that?" Lynn did not do that as much, at least not at first.
NARRATOR MEL: Just like Rob had drawn a parallel between Lynn as as a teacher drawing diagrams on the board, and Lynn as a colleague in a committee meeting breaking out the post-it notes -- he drew a parallel for himself. Here’s Rob as a teacher in class getting the discussion going, getting all the voices out, getting people to have their voices interact and listen to one another, hear each other. And then he said:
REMEMBERED ROB: I do the same thing in committee meeting as a colleague where I'm the one that's going, "let's hear what everybody has to say." But that’s all about this prompt and we can move on.
REMEMBERED MEL: Oh, wait a moment. Before we move on, I have a question I’m not sure how to phrase, but -- do you think that this is related in any way to your disciplinary backgrounds and the pedagogical conventions in your disciplinary background? Because Lynn comes from Computer Science, and you are History. History has this tradition of graduate discussion seminars, and Computer Science tends to be more like "here is an algorithm."
REMEMBERED ROB: And in Computer Science, you would draw diagrams, yes. You know, Mel, that’s interesting. Because, as you recall, I came to History from Civil/Environmental Engineering. I had a Masters in Environmental Engineering. 
I think I told this story earlier, when I had started teaching history, about another professor visiting my classroom and saying at the end "Did you start studying history at the graduate level?" and I was thinking "What are you implying by this, that I don’t have a proper background in history?" but he was talking about the way I taught my classes. "You're teaching your first semester freshman classes like a graduate seminar." And I went, "Oh yeah, I do that." 
I don’t think the only reason why I teach that way, with so much student autonomy and so on, is the fact that I entered the field in grad school. But it surely relates. 
So when you ask whether it’s disciplinary backgrounds, I think about that. And I think there is some truth there, though we don’t want to push it too far. In a computer science program you get a lot of experience flowcharting your design plans, and trying to see the program from the computer’s perspective as you map out what is going right and wrong. So maybe Lynn has an easy time doing that. And in history we certainly need to see different perspectives and look for trends and patterns, look for places where things line up while also being aware of anomalies.
REMEMBERED MEL: Huh. And what about Jon?
REMEMBERED ROB: What about Jon? Jon is a Materials Scientist, and he’s also an educational researcher. And he’s a very good material scientist and the students look up to him because he can explain anything about the material world. "Jon, what is in my wall?" And he could tell you, he can answer any question about it. 
I think that is the approach that Jon takes to his life. That curiosity of, "this is an experiment, let me try this out. Let me investigate this, let me see what's going on. What truth lies beneath the surface of things? What principles underlie the reality that I perceive?" 
This exactly carries into his educational research as well, Jon believes in tangible data and avoids generalizing without support, but he also knows that there can be a lot of factors under the surface that cause the world to look like it does.
As a teacher, what that means is that Jon is all about open-ended problems. 9 times out of 10, when someone asked him a question, his response would be, "What do you think?" That was Jon’s response. For a mature learner, that was a great thing because it made them think about, "Okay, what's the deeper concept? How do I learn this material on my own? How do I make sense of this on my own?" 
Jon’s approach showed the mature learner that the answer to the question was less important than knowing how to answer questions in general. 
For a less mature learner, it would be really frustrating because they would think, "I know you know the answer to this. Why is it taking so long for you to help me?" 
But Jon is about open-ended problem-solving, and that’s why project-based works so well for him.
Okay, so that's Jon in the classroom as a teacher. Jon as a colleague in a committee meeting does the same sort of thing. "Stop. What do we really think about this? Stop. What does this actually mean?" He’s always broadening the scope. When a committee might feel like it is getting to an efficient place because everyone sees something the same way, Jon is often the one to do a process check and make sure that we aren’t succumbing to some form of "group think" -- have we seen the problem from different perspectives? Have we unpacked the deeper principles? Or are we just skimming the surface and ignoring an important underlying issue?"
REMEMBERED MEL: Okay, disclaimer, I'm about to make sweeping generalizations, but I wonder if this is one way of many ways of making sense of why you mesh with both Lynn and Jon, but why Lynn and Jon might clash. Because, to oversimplify, what I’m hearing from your description is that you, Rob, are about hearing all the voices. And Lynn is about getting it out there so we can converge on this thing, see what this thing is. And Jon is about broadening the scope. You can hear all the voices and broaden the scope. You can hear all the voices and converge on a thing, but you can't broaden the scope and converge on a thing at the same time.
REMEMBERED ROB: Ah! That's interesting.
NARRATOR MEL: And we both had a moment of disclaimer of, "Yep, these are very complex people, we are oversimplifying it. It would be really interesting to see what they think and what they say about this, but this is not the end-all, be-all answer. We are oversimplifying to play with an idea right now, but it doesn’t mean we are correct. Then Rob made the observation that:
REMEMBERED ROB: Okay, but in that analysis of that situation, you can see why Rob-Lynn and Rob-Jon might work, and why Lynn and Jon might not combine so well initially. But you can actually see that there's a tremendous potential for that to work really well together if they both saw that and went, "Oh, we complement each other and we both see that this is where it's going on. And so we're gonna make that work together."
NARRATOR MEL: Then he went on to the second part of the Lynn #2 prompt, which is Lynn talking about Rob.
PROMPT: LYNN #2 - PART 3
(later)
LYNN: Rob: Chapter 4.5, Maybe that is Lynn’s way of talking about one of the frustrations evident of the students.
LYNN: Rob getting me and trying to gently suggest to Jon that there might be another interpretation?
MEL: Well, Rob's not talking to Jon there... he's talking to me. And Rob's comment preceded Jon's.
LYNN: Had he seen Jon's reaction to my comment. Oh, guess not.
MEL: Actually, Jon *read* Rob's comment on your text when he was making his comments... so Jon had actually seen Rob's reaction, not the other way around. (I can go back and double-check that, but I'm pretty sure.)
LYNN: interesting. because I read into Rob's comment the gentle way in which he tries to get his conversational partner to think a little differently :)
MEL: ...just double-checked. yes, Rob's comment was in Jon's prompt.
NARRATOR MEL: Rob chuckled at Lynn and read part of her comment out loud.
REMEMBERED ROB: "I've read into Rob's comment the gentle way in which he tried to get his conversational partner to think a little differently." Here’s another moment of, "Oh, how interesting to see how somebody else sees me." That that’s part of how Lynn sees me. I know that I often try to use a "gentle" approach in discussions, probably originating in my classroom style of facilitating a class discussion, and there are times when I attempt the same approach in a faculty gathering. It seems that I have a bit of a reputation for this approach and maybe it is a part of my identity, as perceived by my friends and colleagues. Maybe I am even seen that way when it is not my intent. This is so valuable, having this window into how I am viewed by others.
NARRATOR MEL: Rob noted that all three Olin faculty seemed to be having these moments of reflection and identification and sensemaking of themselves and their relationships with one another. He also noted that, again, this is something that's much, much broader than just the topic of the curriculum revision or being in a classroom. This was connecting beyond that, into the personal identities and the way that they lived in the world. 
I wish I had the recording because Rob put it so beautifully, broadening the scope of that one comment from Lynn, and I'm just not capturing that here.
NARRATOR ROB: It is true that my words were a thing of beauty, a gloriously poetic breath of philosophy that held the promise of widespread societal enlightenment. Sadly, I too do not recall the exact words used but I am pretty certain that we captured the essence of it here.
NARRATOR MEL: At that point, we looked at the time and we went, "Oop, we should hustle through the most of the rest of these, because we want to end by 5:30pm." So Rob read Jon #3.
PROMPT: JON #3
JON: But yeah, there is something to be said for try something, just jump in, don’t think too much about it beforehand and see what happens and then kind of go back and scaffold or design around the emergent goals. Rob and I kind of did this with the Stuff of History course too. We tried things with intention it didn’t end up exactly what we thought but then we reflected on it and pulled out key ideas and key goal and restructured the class around that.
MEL:  And now ironically when you’re teaching faculty workshops you’re all, you need to know your goals!
JON:  It is really kind of funny, and the irony is not lost on me.
REMEMBERED ROB: I'm not gonna comment on that, because I agree completely, and that exchange just flows perfectly as-is. And then there’s Rob #1 --
PROMPT: ROB #1
ROB: I would call myself an "emerging educational researcher". So I'm reading the literature, I'm internalizing it. I think anybody who's doing this educational research has one part of them that's saying, "I'm a teacher. I know how students work. I'm gonna continue teaching and reacting to students as I see them." 
And the second part of them is saying, "Oh, the literature is giving me techniques and understandings and principles." And there's a set... There's a time when you're trying to meld those two things, right? '... And I think that there's a time when a lot of people entering the educational research field, they're still making sense of these two things, the theory and the practice and coming up with your own approach to it. I'm still in that spot. 
NARRATOR MEL: We skipped that one too. We didn’t even talk about skipping it, we just skipped it and the results discussion after barely mentioning that they existed.
TRANSITION INTO RESULTS DISCUSSION
ROB: So speaking of Lynn and "What is I", I just randomly looked at the screen... now I'm seeing, "Find Lynn's analysis of Rob versus Jon getting her humor." That sounds hilarious. That's funny. So is Lynn talking about getting her humor in a classroom setting or through these interviews that we're doing? 
MEL: All of the above. One of the things that I wasn't expecting is... I was expecting all of the faculty now anyway to talk about stuff they learned in the past while doing this crazy stuff, but there's been a lot of learning happening in the present as we reflect on it, as well.
NARRATOR MEL: At this point, we shifted to the preliminatry results. They looked like this:
PRELIMINARY RESULTS:
Overarching theme: faculty as learners (while telling narratives about a large-scale, design-thinking-centered curriculum revision)
What do they learn?
(self) identity, especially presentation
Relationships
with colleagues on the revision team (and off it)
with students, especially regarding their role in the curriculum revision
with other things/people in their lives (families, prior teachers, etc)
Epistemology (conceptual change)
What’s teaching? What are the boundaries of teaching?
What’s learning? What do we count as learning and demonstration of learning?
What’s curricular change? How does it happen?
What’s design?
When do they learn? (This is a terrible wording.)
"Then" (in the past)
before the revision
during the revision (in the revision)
during the revision (parallel to the revision)
between the revision and the narrative-gathering
"Now" (during the narrative-gathering)
during the narrative (example: Lynn)
between narrative sessions (example: Mark)
REMEMBERED MEL: Now, these are baby results and they’re not very good yet. 
REMEMBERED ROB: I like your side comment of "This is a terrible wording."
REMEMBERED MEL: Yeah, these are really not great results, you know, just early stage stuff I’m kicking around with my committee. So you know my research question is about faculty as learners. In the context of telling stories about a curriculum revision about design thinking, I mean -- all the narration stuff we’re doing here -- what can that help us understand about faculty as learners? Because we usually think of them as teachers, but how do we look at them as learners?
So the results break down into two parts. Faculty as learners -- what do they learn? And then everything else that’s not about the stuff they learn.
In terms of what they learn, it breaks down into self-identity, into relationships -- that’s the most interesrting part for me right now, relationships with colleagues and students and so forth -- and then there’s the epistemology stuff which I might not emphasize as much. But really, they’re all intertwined. But I just love the relationships part, that seems like the juiciest for me.
REMEMBERED ROB: Maybe because this is who I am in the process as a narrator, but I am also most interested in the identity and the relationships part. The epistemology is useful, you have to have it in there, inasmuch as it informs the identity and relationship. But maybe the epistemology is most important as a way of shedding light on the identity discussion. 
I am saying this from my position as one of the narrators and of course identity is something I want to hear about because it is helpful and fascinating for me. I could imagine that a hypothetical external reader of this project, who is not one of the narrators, might see this differently... they might want the epistemology, because they are asking "what's the actionable thing? So what does this tell me about teaching, what's this tell me about learning?" 
So I think epistemology has a place here, but like you, I see the most value and novelty in the identity parts.
REMEMBERED MEL: The second part is other things that are not "things they learn." Part of that is about when the learning happens in time. I expected everyone to talk about what they had learned in the past while doing the curriculum revision. "Oh, yeah, 10 years ago, I learned this and that." I have been surprised at how much learning was happening now during the narrations, with people making sense of their stories.
And this is one difference I noticed between Berea and Olin -- a lot of things are similar, but one of the different things is in section 2-a-4 of that results outline, which I’ve highlighted. That for Olin, there’s been more time between the curriculum revision and the narrative process as an intervention. And I can sort of call it an intervention, even if it wasn’t intended as an intervention, because we’re seeing that the storytelling process itself has an impact on the faculty telling the stories.
Anyway, with Olin faculty, one thing you have in common is that the curriculum revision happened -- or the curriculum creation, rather, happened a long time ago. Since then, every one of you has done something else, some other major project that has been completed or has at least reached a steady state. The Collaboratory, Stuff of History, et cetera. Whereas the Berea faculty are much closer in time to their curriculum revision. They haven't started something else and gotten that through a stable state. The ink is still drying on the formal part of the curriculum revision and so that makes a difference in a way that they make sense of that.
NARRATOR MEL: My gosh, I have myself talking for such a long time here. I think that’s pretty accurate, but I feel like I may be forgetting some of Rob’s small commentaries during my explanation. Anyway, I eventually shut up and let him respond.
NARRATOR ROB: Nah, nothing valuable from me during your really cool observation. I loved the connections you made and they led to my next comments.
REMEMBERED ROB: I am so excited to see the results. That’s something I love to do, seeing human-centered results like these. I don’t get to do that very often...
REMEMBERED MEL: I'm surprised to hear you you say that, because you do this kind of research all the time. At least in my mind, I think -- wait, you're a historian and you do education research. So you're looking at this qualitative data and you’re doing this sort of thing all the time.
REMEMBERED ROB: Yes. But this is different, because usually when I’m doing my analysis, I have to remove my own perspective. Whereas this is building on it. I’ll give you an example. If I was writing about Paul Revere, and I said in a chapter, "Well, I believe this about Paul Revere, because these are the values that I hold in my life, and this is my best understanding of my own identity..." people would say, "who is this egotist?" You just can't do that. You are welcome to take a stance, but it needs to come from the evidence and follow certain analytical steps so that others will understand your thinking.
But this experience is one of embracing your own perspective, which is the thing that a historian usually have to take out of my research. And building upon it, seeing all the interacting stories and perspectives of the other faculty members. And that’s a result. I’d call that a result of your study. Embracing that perspective is something I don’t necessarily get to do a lot but it is valuable and revealing.
This process is also an exercise in humility, because I usually think of myself as someone who's very reflective, someone who thinks about viewpoints and perceptions and identity a lot and who is able to see many perspectives. 
But seeing these stories from the other faculty, of Lynn saying "Oh I wonder if Jon's reading it this way and Rob's reading it this way," made me aware that as good as I think I am at synthesizing narratives and doing narrative analysis and stepping back from my own values and viewpoint -- you know, I do honestly see myself as someone who is good with narratives -- but going through this process is a reminder to me that no matter how good I think I am at that, I'm still seeing things from my perspective. I know this already on one level but it is easy to forget.
I’m also looking at the part that says "What is design?" In terms of things that I learned during this process, I learned a lot about design. I hadn't gotten that chance before. I was not involved in the design curriculum directly, in a hands-on manner, back when the design curriculum was forming. Whereas Jon and Lynn were more directly involved. At the same time, I had been pondering many components of a design discussion throughout my career at Olin even though I didn’t always label them "design." So it is fascinating for me to finally focus on the holistic study of design, learn how I plugged into it along the way, and catch up a bit on parts that I missed. 
There's this thing about that perspective of being an outsider in there. In this study, what do you see when you have someone who's more of an outsider telling you things, and you have people in the core, on the fringes, in orbit?
Being able to overhear what Jon and Lynn are saying, and reacting and responding to that, is getting me to think about "what is design?" Because for me, I think about design, I talk about design, I use design, but design was more of a finished result. "Design" at Olin was something that other people came up with, and then I picked it up and used it after most of the hard work had been finished. But Jon and Lynn were there in the trenches all along.
REMEMBERED MEL: That’s exactly why I wanted to have all your stories interacting, because everyone has such a different positionality.
REMEMBERED ROB: You used the word "positionality," which is important, and you using that word made me think of something -- 
NARRATOR MEL: -- and of course I don’t remember what that something was. Dang...
NARRATOR ROB: I think it related to the "actionable" aspects of the research process. Something like this:
REMEMBERED ROB: The "positionality" of this study is really valuable in your role as the researcher and understander. You get three views of the topic of design, and you can learn a lot from the places where these views agree and disagree. 
But the positionality also impacts us, the people in the study. If each of us can be made more aware of our own position throughout this process, that is a major benefit not only for the way we understand this topic but also for the way we understand our role in the community. 
This study has a huge potential to help faculty members see how they are perceived and how they see things. There is something powerful about having us reflect on curricular issues… you don’t attack the identity question head-on, which could make people overly self-aware and maybe less honest, but instead you get us talking about something that we all care about, something related to our professional career, and something that will really reveal our identity after all.
NARRATOR MEL: -- Anyway, a few seconds later, we were talking about research process.
REMEMBERED ROB: I never get to do this kind of analysis, because when I read things from other faculty, it's usually the finished final product. But here is the raw stuff, and it's fascinating to see the raw stuff when it's not done yet, and to be able to comment on that as it is unfolding, and hear a response to my comment or observation.
NARRATOR MEL: He talked about a lot of things in a broader context at that point, and he suggested that what I might be doing is sorting things into categories or axes for analysis. 
REMEMBERED ROB: I do a lot of this a lot in my own work, late in the analysis process. Take the example of the Collaboratory task force, a group I am on at the moment, aimed at re-thinking how Olin achieves its aspiration. 
When we are trying to design a possible new incarnation of the Collaboratory we might break down into several axes, and say, "all right, one axis might be size. Is the Collaboratory a few people, a lot of people, something in between?" Another axis might be revenue. Does the collaboratory break even? Does it cost Olin money? Does it make Olin money? And you can use these axes to sort the data. 
And what I see you coming up with is those kind of categories as ways of looking at the data. When you are finished you have two things… you sorted the data in a new way that offers new insights and comparison possibilities… but you also identified some of the most significant factors in your upcoming analysis. The axes are sometimes as interesting as the things that you place on the axes. 
NARRATOR MEL: And then we got even more expansive. And I want to capture this, even if I would normally think of this as a side conversation that is "not data." But my committee member Alice had recently pushed me about capturing these as negative cases and trying to see if what I thought of as "not data," things that didn’t fit into my outline, actually told me something. 
So we talked about the Collaboratory, especially since it's where I'll be a postdoc, and everyone knows that. At least the Olin participants from my dissertation know that I'll be rejoining them in that role. And Rob said:
REMEMBERED ROB: This is the sign of a good research project. You read it, and you think, "Oh, you should spend the next 20 years of your life expanding this. You should do this with more participants, you should do this with more institutions..."
REMEMBERED MEL: I am so glad to hear you say that, because you just described my three-year post-doc plan.
NARRATOR MEL: We talked about this as a way to involve more Olin faculty in the Collaboratory, with less of a time commitment than doing the Summer Institute. 
REMEMBERED MEL: It’s also a way to understand the impact of Olin on what's happening in other schools, of gathering these sorts of stories of faculty from other schools. Gathering these stories could be a service that the Collaboratory can provide to other schools -- having Olin faculty reflect on the sensemaking of the faculty from the other institution, of their own stuff.
REMEMBERED ROB: So you will do this with more Olin faculty, and you will do this with more schools?
REMEMBERED MEL: Yeah, with schools that Olin is already working with, maybe like UIUC or Purdue or something. And there’s another axis of expansion, which is more interviewers, more Mels.
REMEMBERED ROB: I like that. More Mels. Are we talking about cloning you, or doing a time-turner type thing?
REMEMBERED MEL: Oh, cloning. I want multiple Mels in parallel. But it’s -- I have learned a lot through this experience as well. The whole way I decided to do this study was that I was looking for an excuse to hang out with faculty that I looked up to, and -- "ok, how can I get credit for that?" And I’ve learned a lot by listening to you. 
But I don’t need to be a bottleneck, and it doesn’t need to be me doing all the interviews. What if it was students? What if Olin students took my place in interviewing Olin faculty? What if it were summer research students, not from Olin, interviewing Olin faculty? What can we do to give that learning experience to more people?
REMEMBERED ROB: I like that. Expanding that, seeing the interviewer role as a learning experience. Teaching other people how to ask these kinds of questions. What if it this is something that you could do for new faculty? Say to them "OK, you are going to interview these 3 people about their experience at Olin." A new faculty member will learn a lot more from asking these questions of the existing faculty than they would learn from reading results or attending a workshop and a bunch of presentations.
REMEMBERED MEL: I see this not just as a way of getting more Olin faculty to contribute to the Collaboratory, but also as a way of doing faculty development for all Olin faculty, because there’s not much -- at Purdue, we have the Center for Teaching and Learning, or Instructional Excellence, or -- it’s called different things at different schools, but at Olin, there’s not something like that. Maybe because we assume that everyone who comes to Olin is already into the whole teaching thing.
REMEMBERED ROB: You know, it’s interesting, because I’m on a committee with Lynn looking at the role of the Collaboratory at Olin. I was also on a committee looking at promotion at Olin, and that was one thing that came up in both places. What is the place of this kind of outreach work in an Olin faculty's responsibility?
For instance, teaching. We know teaching is a huge piece of each faculty’s responsibilities. If someone at Olin said, "Hello, Provost Vin, I don’t really want to do this teaching thing, I’ll just do other stuff, but I’m not going to do teaching." Vin’s reaction would be, "Nice knowing you. Bye, bye." We think of teaching as something that’s part of everyone’s responsibility.
Whereas -- Olin has also said that part of its mission is to transform engineering education, including in other schools. And what would happen if someone would say, "You know, this changing engineering education thing, working with other schools, doing this outreach stuff -- I don't really care about that stuff, don't plan on doing that" -- what would our reaction be? Well, first of all, no one says that, because we don't actually ask that question. But if they did, what would we say? Should we get that listed as one of our responsibilities? Should it become part of our (and Olin’s) identity?
NARRATOR MEL: And then there was a lot of... "you're gonna come back and we're gonna continue doing this kind of work and having this kind of conversation with exciting possibilities for expansion beyond just this dissertation."
Rob commented that when he came into this, he had been hoping to help me out, help me learn things, and then Mel would graduate at some point, but he had been surprised by how much he had also learned and how much some of these things had stuck with him and caused him to reflect and think about a lot of the topics we discussed, especially design.
But also in terms of the relationships, and going "oh, this is how I interact with you, and how I interact with you, and you, and you." He was talking about how the relationships and the identity part intertwined.
REMEMBERED MEL: Okay, so looking at time and thinking about wrapping up, is there anything else on your mind? You've already talked a lot about what you learned while we were discussing the results, is there anything on that one that you wanted to say?
REMEMBERED ROB: This is like the Collaboratory, but even more so. There's a lot of learning how to work with the individuals at your institution. Working with others in team-taught courses and through the Collaboratory was where I learned the most about my colleagues and myself. This happens at the Collaboratory all the time. Sitting down afterwards and having those conversations of, "I thought I knew you, but now I really know you." That’s how you really get to know your colleagues.
And then maybe this is a smaller discussion that happens off to the side, but there’s also "I thought I knew me, but now I really know me." It isn’t until you have to articulate to an outsider what you do that you solidify your own identity and go, "Oh, wait. I actually believe that." Having to explain things to other people helps me to say "Oh! Look, this is me."
I think of this process of doing the narrative as sort of having a similar effect, or being the same sort of thing, except even more intense because we talk for so long at a time, on a focused topic.
NARRATOR MEL: And he talked about how seeing the transcript of his words was particularly helpful, which is why I'm going, "Ah! We don't have a transcript." 
NARRATOR ROB: I hear you. I added as much as I could remember to each of my statements. I think we are getting close to what we both said.
REMEMBERED ROB: I can look at my transcript and go, "Oh! Is that how I said that? Is that I how phrased that? That's not how I thought I sounded. I really said that." Again, as a narrative researcher and historian, I think I do that all the time, but as with all things with self-awareness, you can always get better. Some people watch videos of themselves teaching and describe the process as humbling but eye opening. I understand this reaction a lot better now.
You’ve come up with a process. And parts of it could be taken and used in other places, as a way of knowing yourself and knowing your colleagues, just like the Collaboratory work.
NARRATOR MEL: And then there was a little bit of celebration of, "Yay, Mel's is coming with the post-doc, so we’ll get to keep exploring this." There was a lot of thank you stuff, a lot of "Do you have anything else?" "Nope, that's it." We're wrapping up. We feel like we have closure and put a little bit of logistics things about getting things transcribed and then sending them back for a review.
I pointed out that this was the last interview session that he had, and so his formal participation, obligation was now complete.
REMEMBERED MEL: Maybe as results pop up, I might be sending you notes because I like to share cool things with people who might also think they're cool. But you don’t have to look at it or respond to anything.
NARRATOR MEL: Rob urged me to check back with him if there's something I also wanted to learn or clarify.
REMEMBERED ROB: Sometimes in my own research process, I finds things and go, "Oh! I wonder what they meant by that..." or "Wow, I finally understand the research question that I should have been asking all this time." 
But because I research American Revolutionary characters and have limited access to certain source materials, I can't go back and ask them about that at that late stage of his research. But for you, it can be as simple as sending me an email. Sure, you can email me to share cool stuff and I will respond. And you can email me to edit a transcript in order to make it more accurately capture what I was trying to say. 
But in addition, you should contact me if your research goes in a new direction and you decide that you might need a few words from me on a topic that neither of us thought to raise before. I think we should formally establish these late-in-the-game questions as part of the process, since I’m readily available and interested!
REMEMBERED MEL: Of course, I’ll probably do that but I just wanted to make it clear that there's no obligation for that. We’ll keep talking, and I’ll come back to Olin soon.
NARRATOR MEL: And that was pretty much it, that's what I recall. 
I think that I captured a lot of things. I think that I've been pretty good at noticing the one major time that I cannot recall precisely what we discussed. I think I did a pretty decent job here of saying, "this is what I remember verbatim or close to verbatim," versus "I think we said this but I’m definitely paraphrasing heavily." 
Of course, it would always be better if there was the original transcript, but in terms of doing what I can, I think this is relatively fair performance. So I'll get this transcribed and then I'll see what Rob thinks. And let this be a lesson to me to somehow change the recording setup to be failproof because I thought I had done that, but apparently I had not.
NARRATOR ROB: I think your memory and ability to recreate our long and often meandering conversation was nothing short of miraculous. I can’t see any places where important content (or even medium-value content) is missing. There are surely places where interesting wording is lost (as this process has shown, some of the best observations arise when one of us says something and later learns that the word choice revealed more than was first intended) but them’s the breaks. A number of the topics that we discussed stood out in my mind after we were done… and all of them are captured here. I have lost data before but never has the impact been mitigated as well as here. And let me reiterate that if you later feel that some other Rob-musings might help, just say the word!
