(debrief questions from Pawley, modified)

What were main issues in interview [in terms of process]?

transcriber breaks are important! Structure conversation to give Terry more rest time during long interviews.
asking 2 questions at once and allowing the narrator to balance between them was reported as helpful (at least to Rob). Will this work well for other faculty narrators?
A combination of Skype and Google Docs works well; latency is sufficiently low, comment functionality is easy to use, security/sharing is easy. Let’s keep doing this.
We got surprisingly far into “storytelling” mode here -- I’d expected to need longer for background/context, but I guess that’s my job to annotate and pull in later. I’m guessing Rob and I didn’t do as much of that (“Olin is a 4-year undergraduate engineering institution…”) because we know we both have that context, and that it’s easy to get afterwards and from other sources. So this session turned out to be a bonus “6th” story session.

Summarize the information you got [originally: or failed to get on each target question].

Rob introduced himself as a cross-disciplinary historian/engineer/science-trained professor who also does education research -- 2x2 grid.
Partner year: design started as one of many parts of engineering, but later (somehow) grew to be the umbrella underneath which everything else at Olin falls, and both faculty and students now operate under that assumption.
Rob as “the Wizard of AHS” who (fresh out of grad school) was responsible for “90% of human knowledge” and did a lot of bridge-building with a (very willing) group of colleagues to do cross-disciplimary integration

Anything else interesting, salient, illuminating, or important in this interview [content]

The narrative of “design” itself -- that concept is something I’d like to look into more, seeing design almost as a character on its own (instead of seeing only faculty as characters in the story).
How much Rob got into the editing/analysis -- not because of worries about going public (“I can’t say X, I might get in trouble with Y, I sound silly and incoherent when I say Z”) but because he saw opportunities to communicate things more clearly. How could I make this easier for people to do? Maybe something to work on in the 2nd interview, specifically try to come back to the first round and do that?

What new (or remaining) target questions do you have in considering the next interview?

I want to hear more about this “narrative of design” (with design as a character)
I also want to drill into the specific teaching experience Rob mentioned at the end, how team-teaching made it concrete; I’d love a longer telling/retelling of that narrative, because Rob is a strong character in it and (bonus!) so is Jon.

(debrief questions from Radcliffe’s class)

Affective - how’d it feel?

That was awesome. It opened up (as I expected it would) all sorts of new directions/ideas I hadn’t considered before, and I’ll need to be careful not to get distracted by the shiny and focus on actually dissertating, but… but… YES.

No matter how much you pilot, things will always come up process-wise. This morning, it was typing breaks (this is the longest session I’ve done yet; Terry is a total champ) and I wish I was smoother with the IRB process (maybe explore digital signing?) but Rob and Terry totally rolled with everything.
I’m still concerned about my prelim proposal, and will be until it’s done. As I get the dissertation interviews and analysis rolling, how do I factor that into the document I’m writing? How do I actually just finish and ship it? I don’t think this would be too bad since my missing part is the introductory bits -- contextualizing it in existing work and literature, mostly -- my process is finished and I know exactly what I’m doing with the data (or exactly enough to do it, anyway). But it is something I want to talk with Robin about... soon.
