MEL-R4: So today is the beginning of an exciting new adventure in dissertation land. As you can see, today we have an inordinately long plan, and this is probably not the last one you will see these for, but today is the day that we get to go across institutions and meet Gary, Mark and Alan from Berea College, where Matt Jadud is teaching.
ROB 4: Okay.
MEL-R4: And they have been going through a big curriculum overhaul. They formally finished that and started those classes last year. And it was a design thinking. It should be a thing across all of our curriculum overhaul, so there's some parallel to the story that you folks have been planning at Olin. And I'll just leave it at that. And it's sort of a similar thing of just read and respond to whatever this makes you think of, whether it's a reaction or a commentary on what they've said... Or you know what this reminds me of? That time when... Whenever you're ready, whenever you like, and if you want me to give you more specific questions, I can do so.
ROB 4: No, that sounds interesting. In other words, we could talk about what I exactly what I'm reading or we could talk about how this makes me remember something about Olin. You're saying either one is fine? 
MEL-R4: Yeah, yeah or how it makes you remember something about... Because you've gone through and commented on John and Lynn's stories way back when Olin was picking out the design thing. You've done that as well. And so, this plan is entirely Berea people, and then from the future, for the last two sessions, it will probably be a mix of all of the above, but this is pure Berea right now.
ROB 4: Okay, very cool. Let me adjust this. Alright, so Mel, this is an exciting new phase of our story. Let's make this happen. I love the way you've got this whole thing structured. So let's see. Now I'm looking at this document. I clicked on the link and it's a... Oh, it's not as big a document. It's six pages. Okay. I thought it was longer than it is. It's not that long.
MEL-R4: Okay.
ROB 4: So would you like to direct me to a certain part of the document? 
MEL-R4: I pretty much put it in the order that that would be helpful for context. And if I haven't given enough context, feel free to ask if I forgot to define a word or a person pops up, and you're like, "Who is this person?"
ROB 4: Okay, sure. Okay. So, let me see, so we've got the background here. So 1,623 students, Kentucky, and this program... Oh interesting. So this is... So just to clarify, this is a small program we're talking about? It's only five members.
MEL-R4: Yep.
ROB 4: And two of them are kind of... So more like there's four full-time members if we look at the half-timers. Okay.
MEL-R4: Yep.
ROB 4: And they want to do a four-year curriculum and this is... Let me just check. I'm just trying to check. It's not an engineering school, like Technology Management, Artisan Studies and Engineering Technology Education. Okay, got it. I like the word "artisan" in here, very Paul Revere-like, very nice. Okay, sorry, Mel. That had nothing to do with anything relevant to us.
MEL-R4: That's good [chuckle]
ROB 4: We'll stifle the Paul Revere comments for the remainder of this session. Okay, we will...
MEL-R4: Don't censor out the part of your comments. I love the part of your comments.
ROB 4: I'm gonna ask Paul to leave the room for a little while if that's okay. Alright, so let's see. We're meeting the people. Should I read the... Is it a good use of our time for me to read the introductions of the people? Or is that extraneous? 
MEL-R4: Your call.
ROB 4: Okay.
MEL-R4: I wanted to give you a bit of flavor as to who people were before they just started blabbering away.
ROB 4: Okay, very good. Let me check it out. So let's see... Alright, education and technology, Doctorate in Education with Technology, okay. Industrial arts, okay. Sorry about the silence. I'm reading as fast as I can. I'm done with page one.
MEL-R4: That's totally cool.
ROB 4: We're still introducing. I see this still as context, so I'm not going to grab onto anything here yet, because it's more about ancient history of this program... So let's see. Alright, so I'm mostly done with page two and I will comment. It's an interesting... There's one quick comment I can make here.
MEL-R4: Sure.
ROB 4: The tone of... So I mean, let's look at the section called "History of TAD." We've always been applied, we've always taught design. So I've finished that section, and that is interesting to me, Mel. The way that they are construing this, it just feels very different from Olin. So I wanted to just flag that before, because I'm gonna lose this point as we move forward, but it's an interesting diversions that I'm seeing at this moment here.
MEL-R4: Okay.
ROB 4: The divergence is, at Olin, there was this sense of, if you opt into Olin as a faculty member, "Come join us. Come move into this place. We have a hill. We're about to build new buildings on this hill and come up with a whole new curriculum. Everything is different. Anything that's been done in the past is subject to our discussion and to our editing, and maybe taking the things we like and ditching the things we don't like. So you're opting into something totally new and therefore, the background you bring with you when you come to Olin is very helpful. We want to benefit from that background. But you should be ready to set it aside. You should be ready to pick and choose from your own background even, and decide what's going to be useful as you move forward."
That was the way I recall the early days at Olin. So a lot of us were in the room because we chose to be there. We knew this was something... Let's use the word "experiment". We knew this was an experiment. So we were all going there excited to start this experiment going, we knew what we were getting into. What's the divergence? These people that I'm reading... These people are talking about being in a room already knowing what they're doing, having some expertise and being told that things are going to be different now. So saying, "Okay, let's try a flipped classroom. Let's try... " So I'm reading some of the stuff here that they're talking about, and you could see them talking about their own expertise, by saying...
The first person started by saying there was a lot of animosity when the president walked in and said, "We're going to do a thing, we're going to add a new program now." And there's this feeling of saying, "Hold it. What are we doing? Why are we doing it? Are you the right person to tell me what to do? Could you listen to my expertise, please? I have some thoughts about this, I've done this a lot." So I find this really... There was another line that says, "Now that people have 'invented it', they then come in and tell you how to do it." So you could feel these thoughts of just saying, "Hey! Who are you to tell me what to do? What conversation are we really happening? What are we gonna call this?" Or "I know what I'm doing." I find this really interesting, Mel. It's just a different angle on some of these change issues that we're talking about here.
MEL-R4: It is, and even if... So, you were talking about the president walking in the room for the founding of the department. That was 1954-1955, according to Gary's comment. None of these people were actually faculty members at Berea back then. But that was the founding of the department, the history of the department.
ROB 4: Right. Okay, good, good. That's their founding story. That's... That...
MEL-R4: Yeah.
ROB 4: Okay. So, that's it. So, there's a lot of this. I'm just looking at this and the vibe that I'm getting here from these people is much more a sense of, "Hey! I'm an instructor who has good experience. Often, literally hands-on experience." Because they're talking about hands-on activities, "But also experience as an educator." 
And they're saying, "Listen to my experience. I've been around the block a few times. I know what I'm talking about. Please, let me tell you some things here. Maybe we didn't use these terms that you're using. Maybe this new researcher is coming in and putting official terminology on something that I've been doing for a while, but I get it." And so, that's... It's very... It's very interesting. It's very cool that they're this motivated, that they believe in themselves, and so on.
But again, it's a very different feeling from those of us. At Olin, it was very much... It was almost the opposite. A lot of us were saying, "Look, I've been teacher for a little while." We were also on the younger side, so there wasn't as much experience in the room. But even the ones who did have experience were saying, "Yeah, I've been teaching. I think there's some problems in teaching. I think there's an opportunity here, I'm not sure how we should go forward to do that." 
So, At Olin, I'm just talking... So again, I'm not qualified to assess their... Their story, in terms of, were they appropriate, in terms of their belief in their expertise? I assume they were. They seemed like they really know what they're talking about. What I do know is at Olin, we were very much doubting anything that we brought to the table. We were ready to start with a very blank slate, and say, "What we know may not be relevant. Actually, what we know may be a liability at this point."
"If we bring too much of what we've done in the past, it might prevent us at Olin from doing something really novel and groundbreaking." So, let's be really careful about using that phrase. So if anyone said, "I know how students are," there'd be a lot of people who'd say, "Whoa! Whoa! Do you? There's no such thing as an Olin student yet," or, "We don't know what that student should be. So, hold on a second. What are we talking about here?" It's just... It's helping me. Again, this is like shining the mirror back at Olin more than anything else.
MEL-R4: Yeah.
ROB 4: And they can be aware of how quick we were to say, "Let's just back it up here to first principles and think about what we're trying to do, and then we'll decide what the technique should be, rather than, "Here's what I've done before, here's the best thing I've done. Here's what worked, let's start off with that as a beginning point." 
We were less inclined to do that kind of thing. Okay, that's it. I just wanted to play that about 'cause like I said, I have a feeling I'm going to go into the details of design in a minute, and I'm gonna lose track of this Olin versus other locations here. 
Okay. Let's see. We're back in Berea. We're talking about "What is design?". Okay, let's see. Definitions of design. Yeah, we talked about that in our past conversations, Mel, about design and how we would do that. Okay, let's see. Prototype. I see the design cycle, okay. 
Mel... This... Just a quick thing, so I can get some voices in my head. When these people were talk... Were doing this interview, were they all present at the same time? 
MEL-R4: Nope. It's been the same type of thing with you, and John and Lynn have been doing separate rounds. And so, you noticed that there are also dates besides these names.
ROB 4: I did notice that. Yes. Okay. A lot of them seem the same date, I guess for this section of design. But you're stitching together three separate discussions? 
MEL-R4: Mm-hmm. I did the same with you guys. I stitched together John and Lynn's talks for you. Yep.
ROB 4: Okay. Thank you. This is funny, because in the first section that I just talked about, I was struck by some of the differences between Berea and Olin, and I was just mentioning that to you. In this "What is design?" section, a lot of this feels extremely familiar to me. 
It's very funny. Some of these quotes could almost be verbatim from some of our interviews or some of our discussions where things like where someone says... Let me try and find it. 
Someone says, "We have not come to a resolution about that discussion. It's just about to happen." Someone else said something like, "We are now at the point where we're ready to start defining design. I don't think we were before." Definitely them saying, "We don't have a common definition of design." That's it, and it's funny. One person, say...
The first person said, "I will predict if you talk to those people, we're gonna say very similar things for their definition of design," and then you're seeing people saying, "Whoa! We don't all agree on that!" 
And so even that kind of discussion is extremely familiar to me at Olin, where you might talk to... 
Actually, I think you might have done this. If you talked to me about this, I'm likely to say, "Oh! John and Lynn are very good at this. They would quickly agree and give you the truth," and then if you talk to them, they'll say, "Oh, we each have our own idea." 
So, there's very different views, not only of the term "design", but of our level of agreement about this, where someone like me might be assuming that others are more in line with each other and I'm the one who's not, and then they're saying, "No, Rob. None of us are really aligned on these definitions because it doesn't really come up."
See, I think that's what I'm hearing here. They all see design is important. They're all doing things about design that are very effective, but the act of defining it, that's something that doesn't always come up. It's very amazing how easily it is to sort of side step that and say, "I'm gonna do something without defining it 'cause I gotta get started, so let's just roll up our sleeves and start this design process." But is it design? Is this everything about design? Is this the most important part of design? I'm not sure yet. We need to have that discussion later, so this is very familiar to me.
MEL-R4: Cool, so most of this, this is February, and then the next ones... When you read down a little more, those things start from September, so some fascinating things happened somewhere in between.
ROB 4: Okay, alright. That's a nice transition there. Okay, right. And so and I guess the last thing I'll say about the definition of design is that a lot of the ways they're talking about it are also familiar, a question of, "Is there something called a design cycle?" We talk about that. The act of designing compared to the act of building. So design as a stage of some other process or design as a goal, in and of itself. So could you design something if you're not going to build it? Or do you always design when you're building? 
So these are very familiar to me in terms of discussions that we have at Olin all the time. Okay, so now I feel like I'm really grounded now. 
Okay, so I'd like the title next, so next section. "Magically co-teaching happened". Okay, so let's get into some good stuff here. And by the way, Mel, I'm co-teaching a course right now called "Six Microbes That Changed The World".
MEL-R4: I heard about that. I'm so excited. I'm really looking forward to coming back next year.
ROB 4: It's gonna be... But one problem Mel, is I'm trying to get your degree revoked, so you'll be forced to retake some Olin courses, 'cause I want you in the classroom again as a student, so I just wanted to warn you.
MEL-R4: I'm assuming we could make that happen. I can drop in. I plan on visiting people's classes at some point.
ROB 4: Excellent. Excellent, that will be fun. Okay, so I've mentioned that by the way. That was a bit of a change, but I've mentioned it because co-teaching is something I love talking about, and I've been co-teaching with John Stolk, as you know for many years and we've sort of become really familiar and comfortable with each other, almost like an old married couple where this is extremely smooth and a mutually rewarding partnership. 
And I'm now co-teaching with Jean, the very first time we've ever done this together and it's showing me how much I forgot about the early co-teaching process, about that part where you're still learning each other's abilities and preferences, and those kinds of things, so I'm going through that right now. 
And it's really an interesting discussion, Mel, so we'll have to have that. You might want me to stay focused on this document, but I think that will be a great discussion.
MEL-R4: We might have time to go onto that on this document, we'll see.
ROB 4: Okay, we'll see, but let's see. I gotta see about the magic now, okay? So I'm gonna start reading "Magically co-teaching happened" right now. This is funny by the way, very interesting stuff. I'm not that far into this yet but I see now. 
So I'm reading about the early panic, which I totally can get. I'm reading then about the... "We're three days ahead of the class. We're just barely keeping in front... " They keep using the term "the rubber meets the road", which is a very good term and this idea of saying, "We can't have theoretical discussions anymore. Let's get to the world of practicalities." 
I think we've all been there, and so I totally get this, and I'm just now on, what page is this? 
Page four, I've just made it onto page four where they're talking about... Oh, well, there's these four terms that we're talking about that are all design-related, and they had mentioned: Design criteria, design constraints, the design cycle, and design intent, and they're saying, "And we've got some overlap and there are some differences, and some of us are using them interchangeably, but then they're not the same, so you can't interchange them."
And there's just a great point here. So I'm gonna just say the obvious point just so that it's on the record. You can talk about something forever and think that you're converging or think that you're making progress perhaps, and it's not the same as doing it and then realizing, it just strikes you all of a sudden when you're actually applying something, you're making it happen. 
You're giving it real world importance when you're saying, "Gee, we are using these terms differently," or "We're using them interchangeably, but they're different ideas and we don't know what those ideas yet are. And this is confusing so we need to clarify it." 
And it's just incredible about that, so I'm not sure what to do with that as an educator, because it's not so... 'Cause I noticed I've mentioned that I'm co-teaching right now and it is so valuable to do that. When you co-teach, you really finally understand something. You understand the person. You understand their pedagogy, maybe their discipline, if you're not from the same discipline. That's something I always end up learning a lot better. 
On the flip side, that's not a really sustainable model. You can't say, "Everybody co-teach with everybody" and then we'll be able to have a great conversation, right? 
Obviously, that's just undoable, so it's such a basic truth here, where like you don't really understand something until you bring it from the world of ideas and abstractions into the world of reality, and you're forced to do that when you co-teach. 
So that's one model that's really extreme. It's a very powerful model of just saying, you want to really get to know it, co-teach. Bring all of these ideas into a common place with real students in the real world, in real-time, and then we'll figure out all of these things, but you obviously can't do that all the time, so what's the compromise? I shouldn't even say "compromise". What's the approach that would work? How do we make a discussion like this real without going through all the trouble of designing a course that could be co-taught? Is there some other way to do it? And I'm sure there are other ways to do that. I just want to come out with it. 
So this is so funny, Mel, just reading about this and seeing them go through this and say, "Oh now we see the problem. Okay, now we see what we need to figure out." We've got to... So in this case, we've got to get on board with this terminology. So that's just fantastic. 
Alright, I'm going to keep reading now. I'm going to go to Alan, September 2014. Let me keep going from there.
Now, the course is ongoing right now. Okay. I'm only, like I said... What page is this? I'm on page four, I think. Right. So, a question that I have, because what's... This is fascinating. They're describing this activity of team teaching as a way of creating this convergence. So, they're describing team teaching as this activity that forces them out of the world of abstraction into the world of reality. It's shining a spotlight on what they need to figure out on a conversation that has to happen. 
So, and I'm really getting that. 'Cause I could see... This reminds me a little bit of in their early days, things like Olin's discussions of competencies where for far too long, we've talked about competencies in the world of abstractions, and we took so long just because there was so much to discuss, there was so much material to bring into that discussion, and there were legitimate disagreements among the faculty. So, we were really creating... Yeah, we were trying to help align our ideas and so on.
But it stayed in this world of abstraction for a very long time, and then, before you knew it, we were teaching classes, and the idea of competencies had never really been brought into the world of implementation so that it didn't quite get seeded. 
So, basically, classes started while the competencies discussion was still in step three out of 10. And so, as classes were proceeding, meanwhile people in the competencies group were starting to figure out more and more possibilities and some ideas. 
But it was too late by that point. Everybody was sort of moving ahead and dealing with other issues. And so that's an example of something where we should have said, "If we really care about this competencies idea, let's immediately bring it into the classes even in a bizarre, unformed way, just to start giving it this reality."
So in this case, the design teachers here are having this. They took design from the world of just ideas of terms and so on into a course and they're saying that they were smacked in the face with the need to be consistent. And so, that sounds really interesting. 
What I would love to hear from them is how the students are responding to this in real-time 'cause that's something that I often wrestle with. So it's this idea of saying, so you get this... 
And it's a little unclear from the narrative 'cause there's not as many words here. This is a summary, of course. They've got a lot more in their heads than made it onto this paper. 
But it's interesting 'cause they're describing this process of discovery, saying, "Whoa. We're using this term differently." For me, that process of discovery often happens in a classroom. So it's happening in real-time when a student might ask a question or something, and you're saying, "Wow, I don't have a great answer to that question." You've just put your finger on something that was a hole in our understanding. 
And it's unclear to me whether that's the case here, whether that's happening in a classroom when students are getting confused or asking great questions. Or if it's happening in their planning meetings because they are describing the teachers are coming together and planning the next few days worth of curriculum and so on. So, where they're debugging this and coming up with it? And what's the vibe in the classroom? What's the spirit that's taking place there? Are the students excited by all this saying, "Hey, we get to peek behind the curtain and see how a course is designed. This is really fun. I wonder how they're going to resolve this disagreement?" Or are the students unhappy? Saying, "Hey, we signed up for a great course and we're getting a work-in-progress. That's not fair."
And so, I'm really curious about that because I think a lot of people are asking that kind of question. If this co-teaching model is so useful in terms of crystallizing instructor's strategies and terminology and everything else, is there a price that the students are paying for this? Are the students debugging a class at the cost of of their own education or their own motivation? Or is it a win-win? Are the students actually benefiting from witnessing this take place? I'd love to hear what they think about that.
MEL-R4: I have written that down as a question to ask them. And also noting that it depends on what kind of education you want your students to have.
ROB 4: Exactly. I have views about that. I've gone... I'm one of the... Even at Olin, I would say I'm one of the radicals. I believe that this is a wonderful process to let students involve, and I believe it really does increase student motivation when you're saying, "I have some educational goals. I've got a lot of techniques I'm willing to try. You, as students, have autonomy to join in and help me shape those goals, and help me fine tune them along the way. We could even discuss whether the goals are the right goals. We could discuss the approaches. 
This is not a total democracy, because I am the teacher, so, I'm going to impose certain things on the class, that's unavoidable. That's actually preferable, I would argue. 
But at the same time, you are co-partners in this. You're involved in this as students as well and I want you to see that I don't have all the answers. We're not working off of a script that I wrote years ago but we're making up some of this as we go along. Maybe it's more accurate to say we're figuring out some of this as we go along, and you can help me do that and when this class ends, you can continue doing that throughout your career. That's really the way it works. So I'm completely a believer in that.
However, I've given workshops where I get this pushback, where people are saying... Some instructors feel they're almost a performer on the stage where they're delivering something, they're delivering this image of authority to the students because that's important for the students to believe in this authority, and the students might need it at certain stages of their education. 
In some cultures and in other countries in some cases, the students basically would say, "I paid for that authority. I'm not coming here to shape something. I'm coming here to learn from a professional. So, don't you show me that you're just bumbling along. I need to see calm, cool authority, and belief in yourself here and I want to be working through a program." 
So, I sometimes have to talk about that in these workshops. It's a big question for some people.
But again, in my co-teaching I just find that when you do this... When you have this discussion in front of the students, saying, "Wow, we're learning about design, and the teachers have not agreed upon a definition of design." 
That's an absolute learning moment in my opinion. It's a great... It could lead to a discussion about design, it could lead to a discussion about the need to define terms. There's just so many ways you might take that. It could lead to a discussion about teamwork and partnership, and I think it's a great opportunity. 
And it sounds like this teaching team here is going through some of these opportunities. So they really are describing this constructively as something, and I'm just curious about how the students would factor into it. 
Okay, so let me return to the document. I'm very eager to keep reading. So they're describing co-teaching, they're describing this, I thought in very funny terms, the idea of barely staying ahead of the classroom. I can thoroughly identify with this, especially right this semester, I'm living this. 
Okay, so let's see. So the next section is called "Aligning faculty and curriculum to help students succeed". Let me read a little bit of this.
Okay, Mel, I've got to become Rob, the history nerd, is that okay? 
MEL-R4: Absolutely.
ROB 4: It's hard, remember I sent Paul Revere out of the room, but you can't get rid of everything in me. 
So there are two ideas coming up in these interviews that are just fascinating to me. These are things I teach all my students. They're basically history of technology frameworks that I use. 
In the prior section, it was something called "technological systems". So the prior section was... And now let me just tell you, I'll give you the two right now so they're on the record, right. So in the "Magically co-teaching happened" section, I kept thinking, "This is a story of technological systems." And in the next section, what is it called again, it's "Aligning faculty and curriculum", it's a lot about paradigm theory and Thomas Kuhn's structure of scientific revolutions. 
So it's just amazing to me that both of these frameworks that I use all of the time to understand the evolution of technologies and ideas with my students are really coming across in the curriculum design process.
So as briefly as I can, in the prior section, there's this big idea... They're talking up again about taking this course and making it happen, and co-teaching and seeing what that gets you. In history of technology, we talk about technology as an invention, like a light bulb. So you say, inventing a technology requires a lot of innovation, a lot of knowledge or tools and things like that, and you might come up with a really cool light bulb. 
But taking that light bulb from the world of a technology into the world of a technological system means you're socially constructing it. It's called... Well, what's the phrase there? You make it societally shaped and societally shaping. 
So the idea is you're giving it real world characteristics, you're saying, "I could take this light bulb in the lab and I could use it, I could heat the filament and give up light and give off light, it has all these features and characteristics," but in the real world, there are very different operating constraints, there are questions such as profits to think about. I can't make this technology and sell it if I'm not making enough money to keep doing that. There are real-world barriers such as legal problems or marketing issues, financing. 
And so, making a technology into a technological system requires not just an inventor, but actually an entrepreneur. And in some cases, they actually... The people who wrote this framework define an entrepreneur as a system builder. So you're giving these technologies this real world component. 
So in the prior section, when they were discussing finally sitting down and the rubber hitting the road, I was just thinking it's like you had this technology which was these innovative ideas and this, or just these ideas of, "Hey, design is important, there's a definition of design." 
And then once the course starts, you need to be that system builder to give it this real world of component, this real world value. You're saying, "It sounded great on paper, but now in reality, you know something? We can't just keep using these terms interchangeably. They're different, we need to define them. And we can't just keep dancing around this topic."
"No more dancing, we have to attack that topic. And we can't keep doing these other things, we have to do them in the real world." And maybe there's a flip side saying, "We can't keep talking about those issues. You know what? They're not important in the real world, so less of those abstract issues, more of these issues that seem very mission critical. 
And so it seemed like they were switching from being inventors to being entrepreneurs. 
And then, in the theory, you actually use hyphenated terms. You might say you're an inventor-entrepreneur. Inventor-entrepreneur and all that. 
So, systems theory was coming up in the prior section, I didn't mention that. I somehow got sidetracked by something, but that was the framework there. So I find that interesting, hopefully, you do too, Mel. I know there's a student in you still that loves to learn about frameworks...
MEL-R4: Oh, yes. Yeah.
ROB 4: And I think there's something good here. For this current section, so what's the name of that? "Aligning faculty" section, they just had something here. So I was thinking it, thinking it, and then I hit the one line on Alan, February 2014, "When older faculty retire, you get a younger faculty with new ideas and the curriculum is going to change." And so... One right before, Gary, February 2014, "We had a different makeup, we had very senior faculty, people who were entrenched and opposed to change." 
That is paradigm theory in a nutshell. You're talking about people seeing the world and having this paradigm that explains things, and it's usually used in the context of science. So you might say, "I believe that disease is caused by these miasmas, these mists that are located in certain locations, and to understand disease, we have to understand geography and air flow and mist, and figure out what are the good and bad areas." And then you have someone new saying, "No, there are these tiny things called 'germs' that are making us sick."
And you have this scientific revolution where there's two sides fighting and Thomas Kuhn who originated this theory, who articulated it, Thomas Kuhn says that often people are so entrenched into a paradigm, because it's not just a set of rules, it's a way of seeing the world. It's like eyeglasses. So it's a way of seeing everything around you and understanding. It's a way of asking questions. It's a way of defining what truth means. What is validity? How do we consider a question properly answered? The paradigm has explanations for that. And so it's not just a set of scientific rules, it tells you how to practice science. And when you're so entrenched in a paradigm, you usually can't shift it. People are not that flexible most of the time.
So he says, "Usually, the paradigm shifts when one generation fades away." That's the only way you could really clear the way. And it's amazing here, this team is talking about paradigm shifts, when in fact, we're talking about teaching and so on, but they're really taking it to a higher level. They're really talking about your identity as a teacher. What is your role here at this college at Berea? We're here to help people or to help the students. And they're saying, and there are some who didn't quite agree with this and they just couldn't shift. They just had to resist it. They're not saying that these are mean people or bad, or unintelligent. They're not saying any of that. They're just entrenched in an old paradigm, and it's very hard to change, and so you had to wait for that voice to leave. And then there's an opening. This is a rare opportunity when there's a moment of opportunity to swoop in.
And very often, that opportunity is lost. Very often, there's enough people who learn from the older generation that they kind of start taking on the older generation and move into positions of authority, and continue things the way they were. Then the opportunity is lost and you have another generation to move through. 
But here, we're seeing that they ceased the reins and they made this shift happen. So that's really exciting. 
And again, I can compare this to Olin where we really were saying at the very beginning of Olin, "Hey, there is an existing paradigm. We don't want to perpetuate that paradigm 'cause Olin's mission is to be innovative. So, what should our paradigm be?" 
So, we didn't have a revolution at Olin. We all agreed there would be a new paradigm. We just had a discussion of what should it be, because there were 50 candidates for this new paradigm that we had to whittle down a little bit. 
That's very different from having to whittle down your vision while overthrowing a previous one. And so you really can hear their story, and you're filled with respect when you think about what this group here is accomplishing.
Alright. So, let me get back into the thing here. So, Mel, that was quite a bit of a history of technology theory in there.
MEL-R4: That is fantastic. Thank you.
ROB 4: Yeah. In the future, if that, if in your research that's interesting to you, I can try and point you to things. It could be, though, that I might have just distilled out what's relevant for this discussion. I'm not sure that there's any further needed. But if you ever think paradigm theory sounds promising, you wish you had more, I can point you towards a few things if that would be helpful.
MEL-R4: Okay.
ROB 4: Same thing for systems theory too, technological systems. Alright, let me get back here to what they're saying about bringing young faculty, and that seems pretty interesting. Alright. There's a lot here to grab on to. 
One thing I'll say that I like the Gary February... Actually, it's a big, there's a Gary, February 2014, that has two paragraphs. One of them says, "I"m going to over simplify." This is an interesting discussion that we have at Olin all the time, this idea. 
So he uses the phrase, the people, always there's some faculty who wanted to change just for change's sake. And at a place like Olin, this is interesting, because, of course, there are a lot of us who are dying to have huge revolutions and want to make lots of changes. 
And there are others, often, people who are in the administrative side who are just thinking about the overall reputation of Olin, and the overall effectiveness that we have who are very concerned about this becoming a problem, who are saying, "Let's not change for just the sake of change. Let's change for the right reasons and let's think carefully before we commit the resources to changing."
So you could tell that at Olin, there's a lot of enthusiasm about getting things right and being flexible, and open-minded, and being agile. 
We keep saying, "We're a small institution." Being small means we can't have certain impacts that would have been nice to have if we were larger. So, let's leverage the advantages of being small, which means we're agile. We can pivot quickly and make changes. 
And then there are some saying, "If we're constantly changing, we will diminish our impact even worse than if we don't change. If we don't stand for anything, because we're always throwing away everything we try and just not sticking with anything, then we're in big trouble." 
So, you could see in a place like Olin, there is some of this tension. Then there are others saying, "Well, we're supposed to be agile. Why are we not reevaluating things?" And there are many people saying, "We're exhausted. We just launched this new change. We tried it. Can't we just enjoy it for a little while before we have to change it again?" So you could just hear all of these different voices bubbling up. 
And at Olin, there's not really one thing called "the curriculum". There's "how we're teaching math", and there's these set of design courses, and this stream, and there's this major, and there's the Arts and Humanities requirement. 
So, all of these different discussions are usually at different states. One of them might have been going on for a few years and is ripe for change. One of them just changed and the change may not have been as effective as the designers hoped it was, so there's a talk of changing it again. And then some people are saying, "No, let's give it more time." 
And so this is a discussion that we're having constantly and it's an important one, because like I was saying, this is a tiring process. It takes a lot of work, and it's also, as they're saying here, it's a process that could be a little bit over done. Maybe a little, how would I say it? A little bit superficial if you're just changing too rapidly for the wrong reasons, if you're just throwing stuff at the wall and seeing what sticks. That's a very strange way to go, and there's also some intentionality behind the changes that we do at Olin.
We don't just throw stuff at the wall. There's a lot of thinking that goes into it, a lot of research beforehand and planning. This is where'd I say and use the word "design" very intentionally. We're going through the design process before we roll something out, and that takes a lot of time. So you don't just wanna change for no reason. 
And I think when I'm reading this, let me just read the end of this again, but what I read the first time I read it... Yep, so who is this? This is Gary. Gary is saying, "There are some people who might be changing for the sake of change. They're not really thinking about it." It's just, "This is cool. This could be cool. Let's try it." 
And he's saying, he's actually saying, "Let's go through a bit of a design process. Let's see what other people are doing, what are some best practices, what's working, what are our goals, which of the existing best practices fit our setting and which don't? 
That's what I'm getting here. I'm reading a little bit into the end of it, but he's saying, "Let's do this more intentionally", and that's really fascinating coming from someone who is a designer. He's kind of saying, "Let's do this change the right way, and not just haphazardly." So boy, can I identify with that.
Alright, I'm gonna move. I think I'm pretty done with that section now. I'm just trying to see here. So I'm up to the last, what's it called? "Questions for Olin"? Oh, wait that's just one comment. Okay, so "Questions for Olin." Hey, they're going to visit us, have them visit our six microbes class. I think they'd enjoy that, Mel. Alright, let's see.
"How do we make sure that everyone involved is communicated well?" Okay, so he's asking us, how do we ensure that there's all this good communication at Olin, not just between the teaching team, but when you have all these people work together in the course... Oh, so he's mostly talking about a teaching team, but I guess that's a broad... I take it as a broad question. How do you make sure that everyone has a voice and a say that you're making progress, but that you're hearing everything? How do you that? 
It actually is going back to the course though. I'm in the "Mark, September 2014" comment, "Questions for Olin." So it seems like he's mostly asking how do we make sure communication happens? So I could take that at the Olin-wide level and say, "How do we make sure everyone is communicating?" Although he seems to be more concerned about people in a common teaching area, maybe co-teachers. Would you just read that, Mel, that he's more concerned about the co-teachers of one course? 
MEL-R4: The context is exactly the same thing, because our three full-time people in the department plus one of the half-time people are co-teaching this class. The only person in the department that is not co-teaching this class right now is a new faculty they just hired a month ago.
ROB 4: Okay. Okay.
MEL-R4: But for him, it's the same question almost.
ROB 4: What's funny, Mel... This is interesting, see, 'cause part of it is I sometimes overthink the wording, but in this case, I think my questioning is very important, because we are talking about different levels of communication here, and they're very different questions and I would have different answers. 
So, your clarification was crucial, because in this case we're saying, there's a small group of people who are very closely involved in this course. Are they all teaching in a certain semester? Maybe, maybe not, that's not as important, but the idea is the total number of people who might be interested in that is somewhere around five you're saying, and some of them might be half-time or so on, but whatever, there's a small group of people who are all invested in this activity.
At Olin, that's true for certain things. It's true at certain levels, it's false at other levels, so I could use the example of a new course. Actually, let's do apples to apples. A course in the design stream, you might say there was some design faculty who are going to roll out a new course or a new requirement at Olin, and they might be in the same number around five people or so who are going to rotate in and out of teaching it in small groups.
At Olin, it's usually a little bit larger than that so it might be more like maybe up to 10 people who are directly involved in this activity, and may someday be teaching it. And so, who certainly though, understand the subject matter and the potential pedagogical studies that they'll use. Let's say there's around 10 people or so who are in the space of this activity enough to really contribute to the discussion, then there's 30 other people at Olin who will never teach that course and who understand some of what's going on in the course, but yet, who connect to it because, "We're not a big school and we all share goals and ideas, and we all advise students and it'd be useful for me to know what's going on in that course, and who knows, even if I'll never teach it I may have some things that will help them in that course. And even if I never teach it, with the way that course unfolds, might help me think about my activities better."
So there's two levels here that are both really important and the question is different at both levels, because I think that to say we should get the entire campus involved in the inner workings of that course is not only unrealistic, it's actually dangerous to do that. Because you notice what he said here, "How do you keep the communication maintained while moving the course forward?" Nicely put. Nicely put, because you could say, "Hey, let's make sure every single person is on board with every single activity," Okay I've just stopped all forward progress. We're not going to be actually rolling things out, we're going to be talking a lot of the time. So that's excessive to go to that level. No one's really suggesting that.
On the other hand, you could say, "Oh, you five are most involved with that course, so you talk about it off by in your own world, and the rest of us don't need to hear about you. We're gonna divide and conquer. The rest of us will deal with other things, you five deal with that course. We trust you, good luck." 
Mel, if you remember this came up in some of our earlier discussions when I was talking about the AHS at Olin, in that there were times when people were saying, "Rob, we trust you, we believe in you, we want you to have autonomy. You go design that and none of us will interfere," and at first, that sounds really exciting. It's like, "Wow, thank you for this vote of confidence," and very quickly, you realize, "No, thank you. Actually, I don't want that much autonomy and isolation. I actually want to be part of the bigger discussion."
So we're sort of moving into a model that you might describe as more of a federation, perhaps, where instead of saying it's an absolute democracy where everybody is involved in everything and we're all sitting and debating every activity all the time, you would say, "We're not gonna go to that polar extreme." And we're not going to say that it's like independent countries where we just separate off from each other and we're each doing our own thing as efficiently as possible, and wasting each other's time as little as possible. 
You're going in the middle and saying, "We're a federation of connected states and we all care about the same bigger issues, and we need common vocabulary. And we should give each other advice and tips, but we should then sequester ourselves at times and let one group sit down and make decisions, and not necessarily take everyone else's voice into account." 'Cause they have to make the call at the end of the day, they have to roll it out, and they were the ones in the classroom. So it's not like they could have 20 other people telling them what to do in their classroom. They really need that autonomy when push comes to shove. So, does that sound interesting, Mel? Is that an interesting way of getting at some of this? 
MEL-R4: Oh, yeah.
ROB 4: So now, to close this loop 100%, Mark, I believe is talking about... Again, he's in a group of five total, so he doesn't have more than that who would be talking to him. So he's saying, I think you could then say, "Great, let's buy into this federation model that sound wonderful. Let's now talk about the people in one of these activities." 
So, in his case, the number is five. At Olin, it might be a little bigger than that, but then again it might not. For some things, the number is really close to five or maybe smaller where you're saying, "Now, you're the people who are actually teaching this thing. There's three, four, five, six of you. You're gonna be sitting down and rolling out a course." Three, four, five, or six people can have a lot of disagreements and a lot of voices.
So that's where I wanna... I wanna take his question very seriously and say, "How do you make sure that all these people are communicating well with one another and yet you're still teaching the thing? How do we handle that? How do we make progress, but then make sure that we're still communicating all the time?" 
And that's a really tough question. There's no one way to do it and we make mistakes all the time. So I can't say, "Oh, the answer is A", right? It's not gonna be that cut and dry. It's a great question 'cause it's real world. 
To go back to what he said before, the teams that I usually see have these different time scales that they're operating on where I think someone mentioned that several categories earlier in this document, maybe even on page two or something like that where they were saying the rubber's hitting the road. I think it was that section.
I'm not paging backwards in the document, but they were talking about, we're dealing with the view three days ahead of us most of the time. We're looking at what's going on right now. What am I doing tomorrow? What am I doing the day after that? 
And every now and then, you say, "Hey, what's the three-week plan? What's this module that we're doing, the three-week coherent set of activities in the class? 'Cause you can't live the class two days ahead of time, that's silly. You need some bigger view and actually there's a third level which is the curriculum... I'm sorry, the syllabus as a whole. 
So at Olin, we keep talking about these three time scales. Just so, can I actually put this on a few slides when we do workshops and things where you're saying, "There's this semester-long time scale."
And you really need to have that discussion, you really do need to say, "What are our goals for this semester? What is the narrative for this semester? What are the major assessments for this semester? Are we working towards a major project or an exam, or some paper or something?" You need that level of narrative figured out, otherwise this thing is just gonna be a train wreck. You can't do it that close. 
Then you need the three week version saying, "Okay, I got a semesterly plan, what's the three week at a time chunking? What are the goals for every three week segment?" 
And then below that you say, "Now, what do I do on a day by day basis to do the three week idea?" 
The three week by the way is a total arbitrary number, it might be different. It might be four weeks, or whatever, but I'm just saying it's something smaller than a semester but larger than today and tomorrow's classes.
There is some chunking in the middle, and it depends very much on teacher preferences and the subject, and the level of students and 50 other considerations. So there's no one answer to that. 
And what I think we're starting to evolve at Olin, is if you think about those levels of conversation, it helps you think about the communication challenge a little bit more realistically to say, "We need to have some discussions about the course as a whole." That's pretty darn important. When the class starts, we really need a sense of the calendar and the goals, the learning objectives and the assessments. So that's gotta happen beforehand, so we need to have a bunch of discussions and all agree on that syllabus.
If one of us doesn't buy into the syllabus, we're not really holding a course 'cause the students will pick up on this and that's not fair to the students, and it's misleading, to say, "Oh, don't listen to that part of the syllabus, I didn't buy into it." That's just ridiculous. So you need some sort of agreement on a syllabus as a whole before the semester starts. 
The only problem with this is that a syllabus as a whole is not that specific, so there's plenty of room for disagreement even if you all buy into what it says on the syllabus. So you're solving some good problems, but you're not solving all the problems 'cause the syllabus is not 100 pages long. So you're not dealing with every issue that comes up.
The other two questions usually come up at Olin, we've sort of... Without really saying it in this way, we've evolved in iteration model where most of the time, you're dealing with what's two feet in front of your nose and you're talking about today's class and tomorrow's class, and every now and then, you iterate back to the two or three-week plan, and you say "How are we doing? Are we gonna finish this two-week segment? Great! What's the the next segment? Is that one in place? Do we know what's going on?" And by having these different levels that you're iterating between, the communication becomes a lot more specific.
You might say, "Who needs to be on the same page for tomorrow's class? Is it all five of us? Is it three of us? Is it just me?" And so you're able to decide these things, and sort of like move forward and make decisions, and take action, and implement things in the classroom space without feeling like someone's being left out of the conversation, 'cause you're sort of categorizing these conversations, saying, "Who needs to be in which conversations? Okay, now we know, go have those conversations or don't have them as the case may be, just do what you need to do, 'cause we're all on the same page."
So, at Olin, there's often these meetings of a larger team to look at the three-week picture, and then that team will run off and be in different studios carrying things out differently and designing whatever they're doing. And every now and then, circling back, saying "How are things going in your class? Okay, are you carrying on well with your responsibilities? Here's what I'm noticing in what I've been doing. I'm noticing these things work great, these things don't work great. Okay, let's put our heads together now and decide who's needed for the next few individual activities, and when we should all talk about the next three weeks."
So, I guess that's my answer to this thing of, "How does everybody have a voice and a say?" is, it's a voice and a say in different issues, on different time scales, and so you're just sort of having the meta-discussion of who needs to be voting on what and who needs a say on what, and then you're able to do, at the next level, which might involve saying, "I am not gonna be in that conversation, you guys. You two decide whatever you want. I'm out. I've got bigger fish to fry over here." It's very funny, because there's always so much work to be done in these teaming activities that where at first, you're concerned about leaving someone out or about a lack of communication or something, it ends up just going into survival mode, and just saying, "You know something? Leave me out of that conversation, please. I am fine to not participate democratically in everything. I've got my own things I'm gonna deal with." As long as every now and then you circle back together. And so that's where I'm just gonna put that out there in terms of these different levels.
MEL-R4: Cool.
ROB 4: I feel like I'd beat that one to death but I...
MEL-R4: No. That was fantastic. And actually, before we go on, I wanna do a time check, because I know you wanted to pause early. So we can do the next section next week if you'd rather. This might be a good time to step back and strategize how you want to use next Monday to dig deeper into some of this, or we can dive onto the last page if you like.
ROB 4: You know what, Mel? Actually, 'cause I have a few minutes left, but I like the idea of should we take a step back because this next section would be a great thing to talk about next time. Student involvement is something I could talk about all day. So I think that saving that for next time would be nice. I won't feel like I'm rushed or anything like that, and the flip side is, it might be nice to have that meta-discussion because I know you are heading to FIE soon. Is that correct? 
MEL-R4: Yep. I'll be in Madrid.
ROB 4: And so we have one more meeting I believe planned next week where we're going to talk about this, and I wanna make sure that we make that meeting as useful to you as possible before FIE. I'll try to schedule my tube sessions as soon as possible, so you'd have all that with a little bit of time to process it for FIE. So I hope that worked out for you, too.
MEL-R4: It looks great.
ROB 4: Excellent. Thanks. Great. Okay. So in terms of next time, will there be... So I noticed that we have one section left in this document called "student involvement". Is there more, is there another document behind this one that we would then switch to? Or would we just chat more about bigger issues or something? I'm just wondering what you see as the next agenda item for us.
MEL-R4: Well, there's a lot of different directions we can go in and I'll throw a couple of options out at you. So you asked some stuff about, where it sounded like you had some questions to bring back to them about how are students reacting to this co-teaching, which tied into the student involvement bit, because a lot of your questions sounded like, are you popping the hood and letting the students see behind the scenes? Are they reacting well to that? Are they saying, "Oh, my gosh. Go back to being the great and powerful Wizard of Oz." So I could try to get some responses on that, other... Actually, no. By next week, I won't have responses on that question specifically, but by your last interview, certainly.
ROB 4: Okay.
MEL-R4: We could... If there are sections of this document that you would like to see how Lynn and John, if I can get them in time, respond to those. Lynn's reaction to Mark's question was, just started laughing. And say, "Oh, they think we communicate, do they?"
ROB 4: Right. Yes, okay. Fair enough.
MEL-R4: Yeah. So if it's Olin reactions to the Berea stuff that you are curious about in any particular sections, I can dig those up for you. And I'll just leave it open like that, or I can bring in more sections of the Berea transcript. There's more than we can possibly analyze in a lifetime. (laughter)
ROB 4: Well, you know what, Mel, what you're describing... I like... This is a problem between the Mel and Rob discussions. I like everything you're saying. So I would say, starting with the student involvement, home run. I mean, I love that topic. I'd love to talk about that. So that's obviously something we should do. I very much like what you said... Excuse me, about talking about the Olin responses. Like I'm sure if I read what Lynn said, 100% likelihood of me wanting to chime in on that. So saying, "Ooh, that reminds me. Yes, yes. Lynn said a good thing," So, 'cause again, having a different, a different take, a different connection between Olin and Berea will trigger more things that I would like them to chime in there. So I see that as a very productive vein.
MEL-R4: Okay.
ROB 4: So those two were obvious. Those may fill our whole time, but they may not. It's hard to judge these things. I don't know how many Lynn responses you have queued up, and so you're saying in our back pocket, there may be more of the Berea discussions, more of their transcripts that we could always just sort of slot in and I could just read a few more of those, if we ran out of discussions on the other few topics.
MEL-R4: Yep. I don't think that's really gonna be a problem of us running out of discussions on any only topic, Rob.
[laughter]
ROB 4: Well, said, Mel. Yes. You know what you're doing here. No, that sounds good. Was this discussion useful? So the kind of tangents I was pursuing and so on? Do you see usable information coming out of these? 
MEL-R4: Extraordinarily useful. Because it's getting several things. First of all, so my giant overarching question is faculty as learners, could we usually cast faculty simply as teachers? So faculty as learners. And you were pointing out several things about what you or the faculty have been learning during your history at Olin. And even now with the co-teaching of "Six Microbes That Changed the World". And then also in your commentary, you're pointing out something that you're seeing about them as learners, what they're learning, what they could be learning, but they may not have realized yet... Or what they've said that makes you realize something about what you've learned. So that's all just absolutely fantastic and it's gonna take me hours and hours to sort through and analyze this, which is great.
ROB 4: Excellent. Okay, that's great to hear. But there's so many connections, Mel. You just gave me that quick thing about Lynn bursting into laughter about that question. Already, that's so interesting, because if you noticed the way I answered that question, was it a typical Rob way by saying, "What level is he talking about communication?" You noticed I went into this very, again, very nerdy sort of dissecting-the-question-a-little-bit kind of approach. And Lynn's laughter, I would expect, would be at the overall level. So saying, "If we talk about Olin as a whole, communicating, I think you'd have to burst into laughter and say, 'So often, there's stuff going on and we find out about it late, and there's all these other things.'"
So at one level, it's such a challenge that I'd like to hear from them how they deal with it and so on, so we could learn from each other. On a different level, when there's three people in the room teaching tomorrow, I think there's a lot of communication going on at Olin. So and over time, there are these things that we evolve, but do we have a framework to hook it to? So in this case, we just got lucky 'cause John and I have been thinking about this for slides for summer institute kind of things, where you're saying, "How do you sit together and talk about a course? How do you design a course?" "Well, there's these three levels."
So we just happen do that. More often than not, no one has articulated such a thing, but it's kind of in the background, like you're just saying, "Oh yeah, we should think more longer term." And no one has quite mapped it out yet. And so talking to you is helping me take a high level approach on this and say, "You know what? This is a possibility to make a better framework." So I'm seeing the structure beginning to emerge from all of these discussions here, and I was not expecting the introduction of Berea to spark so many ideas.
That's just amazing. When I first saw this, I was thinking, "Boy, this is a risk. I hope I can come up with something to say as I read these." Because the truth is I don't know as much about them, and I'm not gonna presume to just say, "Oh here's what they're going through." But there were just so many connections. There's fellow educators, there's innovators, there's designers. There's just all these different things, and there's so many different connections and questions I would have for them. Actually, one last thing I can tell you, Mel. I've got one more possible question for them.
MEL-R4: Okay, yeah.
ROB 4: They were talking about their students... There's one section, I'm now whipping around trying to... Oh here it is, it's the section called "Aligning faculty and curriculum to help students succeed". And that one, one of the first comments is saying something like, "We're all here for the students." And it's the second comment, Gary, February 2014, says, "You have to understand your student population and the regions coming from, and the baggage, and all this." 
And that to me is just fascinating because at Olin, we try to do that, but it's such a moving target. We don't have a lot of students. It's very hard to characterize them in one way. They're engineers, for sure. They're little bit risk-takers 'cause we're a small school, we're a little bit out of the ordinary, but that's not really true anymore. That was true in the early days and it's partially true now. It's actually false for some students.
So we're not left with the very good model of that, of understanding the students. So we kind of get it when you... After you get to Olin for a while, okay, things start to happen here. You're shaped by the workload and by the style of making work. Okay, we can understand that, but that's something we're helping to create. We're producing some of those effects. 
In terms of understanding where the students are coming from when they get to Olin, I actually think we're not very good at that at all. I think that in the past we've been caught off guard. I think there are trends taking place at Olin that we're not particularly attuned to. And then afterwards, we were like, "Gee, the students nowadays aren't like the students five years ago." You occasionally hear these discussions in a really clumsy, ill-informed way, and I'm wondering about their situation, because in their case, you could imagine them being able to come up with a student persona.
So they could say, "Look, I know it was, the way this comment was phrased, you have to understand the population and the regions they were coming from." So that's giving you a possible analytical metric there. So okay, what are the regions? You got these five regions, I'm just making this up, but if I say, okay, the people from this region tend to be like this. They have these goals, they have this educational background, they have these interests.
And I'm really wondering how useful that is? Would they say they're getting benefits from this? Do they think it's doable actually? Would they say, "No, no Gary's exaggerating. You can't do that. It's a moving target," or do they say, "Yes that's a big part of who we are is understanding our students." So I'd love to hear more about that because I feel like that's a place where Olin has always missed out.
We sort of look more towards the future, what we want these students to do later and that kind of thing. And we don't look as much towards the past for our students, and I know when I talk to a professor in Chile they're very much thinking about, "Oh students here are coming from three... " They use the word "regions" too. "They come from three regions, but one's in this part of the country are like this, and the ones over here are very much like that." And there's all sense of stereotypes and things like that, but yet you see them factoring that in and they could say, "I could tell it from someone's accent, and once that happens I know they'll be very interested if say this." And so you could see them ripping off these observations. 
So if this comes up I'd love to hear them talk about how well they understand their students when they first arrive, how much time they spend thinking about that if any, and if that factors into the way they teach their course. Just because I think Olin can learn a lot from them, in that regard.
MEL-R4: Okay. I will definitely take that back and this would totally be a topic for next week, because I don't know if you recall from this introduction to their topic, Gary is actually an alum of Berea.
ROB 4: Oh wow. Okay, that's right.
MEL-R4: And their student population is very unique in a particular way, but we'll get to that next week.
ROB 4: Excellent. I'd love to talk about that next time. Great.
