Lynn, introduction:

I speak of myself as [a] broadly interdisciplinary person... I was the only computer scientist.  I was one of the AHS faculty. I was one of the people with [a] design background, particularly from my HCI (Human Computer Interface) experience and cognitive science experience. 

I had not, when I came to Olin, seen [my prior curriculum design experiences] as connected to the other design activities [I did]. The recognition that curriculum design is, at some level, design of experience[s] for learners [is] something I might have known, but I’m not sure I articulated. I don’t think I saw all of the connections I see now.  In a lot of ways, curriculum design experience was the most human-centered of all the design I had done… it’s the only field I worked in where the people were obvious. 

Lynn’s first impression of the Olin curriculum and design language
The original vision of the Olin curriculum before I was here had something to do with engineering and entrepreneurship. The 3 corners of the original Olin triangle [are] technology, society, and solving problems, with equal emphasis. “Technology and technical knowledge” being engineering, “society” being the AHS, and “solve problems” being entrepreneurship. 

If you didn’t hear design in that picture, that is not a coincidence. Given what we know now, we can say [that] it makes sense design would be in the middle of that… the curriculum was more about hands-on, experimental learning, which naturally led itself to some design work, but not necessarily human-centered design work.

Using the language [of design], that is something we do easily now, as part of the culture...I think we did use some of those words [Partner year]. "Prototype," maybe; "pilot," definitely. "Design?" Probably. If you looked at those early documents, you would see language that maybe was more typical of traditional engineering design and less typical of the kind of user-centered design that feels like it is more at the heart of Olin. The majority of Olin faculty members were engineers or people who could pretend to be engineers.

Rob’s second session on “what we were doing with Design in the beginning”
When I read [my first storytelling session transcript and see] "we came to design surprisingly late..." it is oversimplified. On the one hand, you could say "What are you talking about, Rob? We had design there at the beginning." On the other hand, there is truth to what I said.  We weren’t highlighting this as design. We were calling it engineering and we were talking about the concept of open-ended problems or projects without the concepts of design: the vocabulary, terminology or tool kits of design.

Lynn’s book chapter titles for “Design at Olin: The Story”
Chapter 1:  We need a design experience in the fourth semester.  <several ideas of what this could be>
Chapter 2:  _*()&^&^, our design prof is leaving….we're hiring someone else, but really shouldn't we plan this already?
Chapter 3:  Ben, please save the day.  Jill and I will help you, but really, we defer to you as our design expert and will sit here quietly (or not :) )
I'm sure there's a Chapter 3.5 where Ben figures out he should bring in Chris or something; I don't recall how that magic happened.
Chapter 4:  Well, here we are.  Er.  Um.  Bike messengers!!!  (And campus police officers, and ER nurses, and a bunch of others.)
Chapter 4.5:  Really, when we say we can't tell you what to do, we're not just being snarky.  And yes, we do know what we're doing.  Why do you ask? (Or maybe not.  Ask Ben?)
Chapter 5:  Phew!  Don't have to do this one again for a year.  (But hey, that was pretty cool.)
Chapter 6 and 7 and 8:  We start using post-its in our meeting.  We start talking about things like "generative thinking".  We start figuring out what we did.  We teach HFID (well, I do) and it turns out that UOCD was useful after all.  We start to incorporate what we learned into how we think.

Rob on UOCD

Given our students now have this experience [of UOCD] in their tool kit, what can I do in my courses that draws upon it... (If design was the first leg of the baton race,) I saw my role as having the next leg of the baton race. It was thrilling for me to see myself as part of this big chain.

Before design we were working together without realizing it, and design said "we are the first domino in this wonderful chain,” and everybody else said “we are dominoes too, it is awesome, let’s talk about it."  That is really when it started.

Lynn on UOCD and team teaching

[UOCD] was really, really important for Olin. It pulled together all of the technical skills people already had, but repurposed them towards human needs… the stories we all told each other about that semester were really important. 

We had students doing deep dives into the lives of various user groups, and that meant that a lot of us were coaching them on things we'd not done before… we were winging it… there was a lot of last-minute planning and a lot of wandering into other studios to see how things were going and whether there were any good ideas to borrow. I think this was the largest stretch for most of the folks doing it, so definitely a lot of visible building-[the-airplane-]while-flying[-it]. It was very much a "fail early, fail often" approach.

Rob on team-teaching
Being in the Stuff of History, we both stopped saying [things like "I'm the humanities guy."] Yes, I am the humanities guy, [but] we are asking you as students to stretch yourself in the space. I am no longer “humanities guy,” I am a member of a big team trying to deal with really exciting interdisciplinary problems. 

As we started teaching it, it was the project where we were starting to go give ourselves permission to use time inefficiently.  “The discussion we are going to have addresses neither of the competencies on the syllabus, but we think it is fun; we are going to give it a try.” It gave us the excuse to try new things in a weird way.  It took that experimental project section of the course to give us this permission.

Lynn on student complaints about UOCD

The first year through, there were no students who had survived the experience and even been made stronger by it. (Mel: Right, my class got the "UOCD will SUCK while you do it but it's SO AWESOME afterwards" testimonials.) Well, but the first year didn't know it would be awesome afterwards. There's more understanding [now] that the discomfort is a part of the process rather than a mistake.

Rob on student reactions to UOCD

The way it ended up is [that] design thinking crept into most aspects of the course. Let’s use design principles to foster conversations about how you are taking class and how we are running the class. The students were often the ones who brought them in. "We did a persona activity in UOCD, maybe we could do it here."
